<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>いい</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x2239">【いい】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x2241"><span class="number">1. </span>いい</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x2247"><span class="number">a. </span>いい〈praise〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>そのセーターいいですね。よく<ruby><rb>似合</rb><rt>に あ</rt></ruby>ってますよ。／That’s a nice sweater. It suits you very well.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>新婚</rb><rt>しんこん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>旅行</rb><rt>りょ こう</rt></ruby>ギリシャだって。／I heard she is going to Greece for her honeymoon.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>へえ、いいなあ。／Really? That sounds nice.</div><div class="explanation">This is used when one expresses praise or envy. Combines with ね or なあ.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x2287"><span class="number">b. </span>いい〈refusal〉</h3><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>もう<ruby><rb>一杯</rb><rt>いっ ぱい</rt></ruby>どうですか。／Would you like another cup of tea?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いえ、もういいです。／No, thank you.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>ケーキがあるんだけど<ruby><rb>食</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>べない？／Do you want some cake?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いや、<ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby>はいい。／Not now, thanks.</div><div class="explanation">In these cases, いい is used to refuse an offer. It has the same meaning as けっこうです.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x2339"><span class="number">c. </span>いい〈call someone’s attention to something〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>いいね、<ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ったことは<ruby><rb>誰</rb><rt>だれ</rt></ruby>にもしゃべっちゃだめだよ。／Listen, you can’t tell anyone what I said just now.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>いい、よく<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>ててね。ここを<ruby><rb>押</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>すとスイッチが<ruby><rb>切</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>れるから、それからコンセントを<ruby><rb>抜</rb><rt>ぬ</rt></ruby>いてね。／OK now, look carefully—pressing here turns it off, and then pull the plug out. Got it?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>いいか、よく<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>け。これからは<ruby><rb>俺</rb><rt>おれ</rt></ruby>がこのグループのリーダーだ。／Listen up, everyone. I am the leader of this group from now on.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>このグラフを<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>てください。いいですか。これは 2001 <ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>ねん</rt></ruby>までの<ruby><rb>世界</rb><rt>せ かい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>人口</rb><rt>じんこう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>増加</rb><rt>ぞう か</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>表</rb><rt>あらわ</rt></ruby>したものです。／Look at this graph, please. All right? This shows the increase in population in the world up to 2001.</div><div class="explanation">Pronounced with a rising tone. Used to get the listener’s attention before giving an order or making a strong request, and to make sure that he/she is ready to listen.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x2376"><span class="number">d. </span>いいから／いいよ</h3><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>があと3<ruby><rb>分</rb><rt>ぷん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>早</rb><rt>はや</rt></ruby>く<ruby><rb>着</rb><rt>つ</rt></ruby>いていれば<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>り<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>れることもなかったのですが...。／If I had arrived just three minutes earlier, we wouldn’t have missed it.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>もうそのことはいいから。それより<ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby>からどうしたらいいかを<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えましょう。／Oh, that’s OK. Let’s think about what we should do now.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あ、タクシー1<ruby><rb>台</rb><rt>だい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>ました。どうぞ<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>くだ</rt></ruby>さい。<ruby><rb>次</rb><rt>つぎ</rt></ruby>がいつ<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>く</rt></ruby>るかもわかりませんし。／Here comes a taxi. Please take it. I’m not sure when another one will come.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いや、いいからどうぞ<ruby><rb>先</rb><rt>さき</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>ってください。そちらの<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>遠</rb><rt>とお</rt></ruby>いんですから。／No, I’ll be all right, you go ahead. You have to go farther than I do.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>ねえ、そんな<ruby><rb>道</rb><rt>みち</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>大丈夫</rb><rt>だい じょう ぶ</rt></ruby>なの？　<ruby><rb>迷</rb><rt>まよ</rt></ruby>ったらどうするのよ。／Hey, is it all right to take such a road? What if we get lost?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いいからまかせとけって。こっちの<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>近道</rb><rt>ちか みち</rt></ruby>なんだから。／It’s OK, just leave it to me. This is a shortcut.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あ、<ruby><rb>数字</rb><rt>すう じ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>入力</rb><rt>にゅう りょく</rt></ruby>はそのキーじゃなくてこっちだよ。／Wait, you should use this key to enter numbers, not that one.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いいから、<ruby><rb>黙</rb><rt>だま</rt></ruby>っててよ。／Yes, yes, just shut up.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>がちゃんと<ruby><rb>財布</rb><rt>さい ふ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>鞄</rb><rt>かばん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>中</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>にしまっておけば、とられたりはしなかったのよね。クレジットカードだって<ruby><rb>別</rb><rt>べつ</rt></ruby>のところに<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>れておくべきだった。ガイドブックにもそうしろって<ruby><rb>書</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>いてあったし...。<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>いのよ。／If I had put my wallet away in my bag, I wouldn’t have had it stolen. I should’ve kept my credit cards in another place. I remember the guidebook said to do that. This is my fault.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>もういいよ。<ruby><rb>後悔</rb><rt>こう かい</rt></ruby>したって<ruby><rb>始</rb><rt>はじ</rt></ruby>まらない。／It’s over and done with now. It’s a little late for regrets.</div><div class="explanation">These express “You don’t have to say or think such a thing” about something the other person has said. They have the function of ending discussion and not letting the other person says anything more. (1), (2), and (3) are cases when the speaker wants to lighten up the situation, cheer up the other person, or say not to worry. (4) is a case when the speaker wants the other person to keep quiet because <span class="noSeparate">his/her</span> concern is rather too much, and (5) means “There is no point in saying such a thing.” いいから means “You don’t have to worry about it; just keep quiet,” and it emphasizes putting a stop to the other person’s comments.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x2479"><span class="number">2. </span>...がいい</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>いことばかり<ruby><rb>覚</rb><rt>おぼ</rt></ruby>えて、お<ruby><rb>前</rb><rt>まえ</rt></ruby>なんか、そのうち<ruby><rb>警察</rb><rt>けい さつ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>捕</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>まるがいいよ。／You learn only the bad things—someday the police ought to arrest you.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>奴</rb><rt>やつ</rt></ruby>らはみんな<ruby><rb>悪魔</rb><rt>あく ま</rt></ruby>にとりつかれて<ruby><rb>死</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>んでしまうがいい。／All evil people should be possessed by a demon and die.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses the speaker’s wish to bestow ill fortune on someone. Used to express criticism, to abuse, or to curse. An old-fashioned way of speaking. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x2504"><span class="number">3. </span>...ていい<span class="reference">→<a href="part0446.xhtml#idtitlex1x39366">【ていい】</a></span></h2><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x2511"><span class="number">4. </span>...といい<span class="reference">→<a href="part0517.xhtml#idtitlex1x48694">【といい】</a></span></h2></body></html>