<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>として...ない</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x55799">【として...ない】</h1><h4 class="info">［最小限の数量+として...ない］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>戦争</rb><rt>せん そう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>始</rb><rt>はじ</rt></ruby>まって<ruby><rb>以来</rb><rt>い らい</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>一日</rb><rt>いち にち</rt></ruby>として<ruby><rb>心</rb><rt>こころ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>まる<ruby><rb>日</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>はない。／Since the war began, I have not had a day’s peace. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>期末</rb><rt>き まつ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>試験</rb><rt>し けん</rt></ruby>では、<ruby><rb>一人</rb><rt>ひとり</rt></ruby>として<ruby><rb>満足</rb><rt>まん ぞく</rt></ruby>のいく<ruby><rb>答案</rb><rt>とう あん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>書</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>いた<ruby><rb>学生</rb><rt>がく せい</rt></ruby>はなかった。／Not one single student submitted satisfactory answers to the final exam.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>高級品</rb><rt>こう きゅう ひん</rt></ruby>ばかりで、<ruby><rb>一</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>つとして<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>えそうな<ruby><rb>品物</rb><rt>しな もの</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>見当</rb><rt>み あ</rt></ruby>たらない。／There are only luxury goods; I can't find a single thing I can afford to buy. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>だれ<ruby><rb>一人</rb><rt>ひとり</rt></ruby>として、<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>発言</rb><rt>はつ げん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>支持</rb><rt>し じ</rt></ruby>してくれる<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>はいなかった。／There wasn't a single person who supported what I said. </div><div class="explanation">として attaches to words that contain the element 一 (one), which indicates a minimum quantity. Followed by a predicate in the negative form and means “not any, not at all.” Examples of words to which として attaches include 一日 (one day), 一時 (いっとき) (a short time), (だれ) 一人 ((not) one person), and (何) 一つ ((not) a single thing). With question words such as なに (what) and だれ (who), として can be dropped, as below.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（例）</span>だれ一人、私の発言を支持してくれる人はいなかった。／Not one person supported what I said. </div><div class="explanation">More commonly used in written language. In spoken language, expressions like ひとつもない (not a single one) are usually used.</div></body></html>