<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>なんでも</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x68362">【なんでも】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x68364"><span class="number">1. </span>なんでも</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>ほしいものは<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>手</rb><rt>て</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>る。／I can get anything I want.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>好</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>きなものを<ruby><rb>注文</rb><rt>ちゅう もん</rt></ruby>して<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>くだ</rt></ruby>さい。／Please order anything you like.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>植物</rb><rt>しょく ぶつ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>事</rb><rt>こと</rt></ruby>なら<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>知</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>っている。／That person knows everything about plants. </div><div class="explanation">Expresses the meaning of “whatever,” “all kinds of things,” or “everything.” </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x68395"><span class="number">2. </span>なんでも...らしい／...そうだ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>はもうすぐ<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>をやめるそうですよ。／I hear she’s quitting her job soon.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>うわさによると、<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>らは<ruby><rb>浜松</rb><rt>はま まつ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>引</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>っ<ruby><rb>越</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>したという<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>だ。／There is a rumor that they’ve moved to Hamamatsu.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でもこの<ruby><rb>窪地</rb><rt>くぼ ち</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>隕石</rb><rt>いん せき</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>落下</rb><rt>らっ か</rt></ruby>したあとだということです。／I hear this hollow was created by a meteor.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でもこのあたりには<ruby><rb>幽霊</rb><rt>ゆう れい</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>るっていう<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>ですよ。／There’s talk that ghosts appear around here.</div><div class="explanation">Followed by a hearsay expression such as らしい／そうだ／という話だ／ということだ, なんでも is used to convey something the speaker has heard but is unsure about.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x68432"><span class="number">3. </span>なんでもない</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x68435"><span class="number">a. </span>なんでもない</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>あの<ruby><rb>頃</rb><rt>ころ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>苦労</rb><rt>く ろう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>比</rb><rt>くら</rt></ruby>べればこんな<ruby><rb>苦労</rb><rt>く ろう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でもない。／This trouble is nothing compared with what I had at that time.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でもないことにそんなに<ruby><rb>大騒</rb><rt>おお さわ</rt></ruby>ぎするな。／Don’t make such a fuss about nothing. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>この<ruby><rb>程度</rb><rt>てい ど</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>にとっては<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でもないことです。／It is no trouble for her to do such work like this. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>顔色</rb><rt>かお いろ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>いけど<ruby><rb>気分</rb><rt>き ぶん</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>いんじゃないですか。／You look pale—do you feel sick? </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いいえ、<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でもありません。<ruby><rb>大丈夫</rb><rt>だい じょう ぶ</rt></ruby>です。／No, it’s nothing.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses the meaning “this is nothing that we should concern ourselves about” or “this is nothing serious.”</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x68484"><span class="number">b. </span>Nでもなんでもない</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>病気</rb><rt>びょう き</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でもない。ただ<ruby><rb>怠</rb><rt>なま</rt></ruby>けたくて<ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>んでいただけだ。／I’m not sick or anything like that. I just feel lazy and like taking a rest.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>こんなものは<ruby><rb>芸術</rb><rt>げい じゅつ</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でもありません。だれだって<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>練習</rb><rt>れん しゅう</rt></ruby>すれば<ruby><rb>作</rb><rt>つく</rt></ruby>れます。／This is not art at all. Anyone can create it with a little bit of practice. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>お<ruby><rb>前</rb><rt>まえ</rt></ruby>とはもう<ruby><rb>友達</rb><rt>とも だち</rt></ruby>でもなんでもない。<ruby><rb>二度</rb><rt>に ど</rt></ruby>と<ruby><rb>僕</rb><rt>ぼく</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>前</rb><rt>まえ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>顔</rb><rt>かお</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>だ</rt></ruby>さないでくれ。／I’m not a friend of yours any more. Never show yourself to me again.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>政治家</rb><rt>せい じ か</rt></ruby>でもなんでもない。ただのペテン<ruby><rb>師</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>だ。／He’s not a politician or anything like that. He’s just a fraud.</div><div class="explanation">With a noun, emphasizes the meaning “that’s not what it is.” In many instances, there is positive value for the correct choice in the sentence, and by refuting that, でもなんでもない states the speaker’s negative evaluation more strongly. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x68521"><span class="number">4. </span>なにがなんでも<span class="reference">→<a href="part0697.xhtml#idtitlex1x64088">【なにがなんでも】</a></span></h2></body></html>