<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>なくては</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x62411">【なくては】</h1><h4 class="info">［N／Na　でなくては］</h4><h4 class="info">［A-くなくては］</h4><h4 class="info">［V-なくては］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>我慢強</rb><rt>が まん づよ</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>でなくては<ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>と<ruby><rb>付</rb><rt>つ</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>合</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>うのは<ruby><rb>難</rb><rt>むずか</rt></ruby>しい。／Unless you have the patience of a saint, it’s hard to get along with her.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>どんなにお<ruby><rb>金</rb><rt>かね</rt></ruby>があっても<ruby><rb>健康</rb><rt>けん こう</rt></ruby>でなくては<ruby><rb>幸</rb><rt>しあわ</rt></ruby>せだとは<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>えない。／No matter how much money you have, if you aren’t in good health, you can’t say you’re happy.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>成績</rb><rt>せい せき</rt></ruby>がもっとよくなくてはこの<ruby><rb>大学</rb><rt>だい がく</rt></ruby>への<ruby><rb>合格</rb><rt>ごう かく</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>無理</rb><rt>む り</rt></ruby>だろう。／Without better grades, you probably won’t be able to pass the entrance exam for this university.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>がいなくては<ruby><rb>生</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>きていけない。／I can’t live without him.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>いてみなくては<ruby><rb>分</rb><rt>わ</rt></ruby>からない。／Unless you ask, you’ll never know.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>もっと<ruby><rb>食</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>べなくては<ruby><rb>大</rb><rt>おお</rt></ruby>きくなれないよ。／You won’t grow up to be big and strong unless you eat more.</div><div class="explanation">Used with the negative form of a verb or a negative expression such as 無理だ (impossible) or 難しい (difficult) at the end of the sentence. Has the meaning “unless X, Y is impossible.” Used when the speaker wants to say that realization of the situation or event expressed in the first clause is desirable or necessary. In many cases, なくては can be replaced by なかったら, なければ and/or ないと. In casual spoken language, N／Naじゃなくちゃ and A-くなくちゃ／V-なくちゃ are used instead.</div></body></html>