<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>なんて2</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x68230">【なんて<sub class="variation">2</sub>】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x68233"><span class="number">1. </span>Nなんて</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>あなたなんて<ruby><rb>大嫌</rb><rt>だい きら</rt></ruby>い。／I hate you!</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>そんな<ruby><rb>馬鹿</rb><rt>ば か</rt></ruby>げた<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>なんて、だれも<ruby><rb>信</rb><rt>しん</rt></ruby>じませんよ。／Nobody believes such a ridiculous story.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>うことなんて、<ruby><rb>嘘</rb><rt>うそ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>決</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>まっています。／Everything that person says has got to be a lie!</div><div class="explanation">Topicalizes something that the speaker thinks ridiculous or stupid. A colloquial expression. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x68264"><span class="number">2. </span>...なんて</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>みんなには<ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>守</rb><rt>まも</rt></ruby>れなんて<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ったけど、そう<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>った<ruby><rb>本人</rb><rt>ほん にん</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>遅刻</rb><rt>ち こく</rt></ruby>してしまった。／She had told us all to be on time, but the very person who had said it arrived late. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>息子</rb><rt>むすこ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>大学</rb><rt>だい がく</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>進学</rb><rt>しん がく</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>嫌</rb><rt>いや</rt></ruby>だなんて<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>だ</rt></ruby>して<ruby><rb>困</rb><rt>こま</rt></ruby>っている。／I’ve been really troubled since my son said he didn’t like the idea of continuing on to a university.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>をだましたなんて<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>っているらしいけど、<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>のほうこそ<ruby><rb>嘘</rb><rt>うそ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>付</rb><rt>つ</rt></ruby>いているんです。／He seems to be saying that I deceived him, but he’s the one who was lying. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>あやまれば<ruby><rb>許</rb><rt>ゆる</rt></ruby>してもらえるなんて<ruby><rb>甘</rb><rt>あま</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えは<ruby><rb>捨</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>てなさい。／Forget about your wishful thinking that if you apologize, you are forgiven.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>まさか、<ruby><rb>親</rb><rt>おや</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>頼</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>めば<ruby><rb>借金</rb><rt>しゃっ きん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>払</rb><rt>はら</rt></ruby>ってもらえるなんて<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>っているんじゃないでしょうね。／Surely you’re not thinking that if you ask your parents, they’ll pay your debt.</div><div class="explanation">Followed by a verb such as 言う (say), 思う (think), 考える (think about) or a noun corresponding to one of these verbs. Expresses the speaker’s unexpected or scornful feeling towards what is said in the preceding clause along with the content of the speaker’s utterance and thought. This is a casual way of saying などと．</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x68307"><span class="number">3. </span>...なんて</h2><h4 class="info">［N／Na　（だ）なんて］</h4><h4 class="info">［A／V　なんて］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>一家</rb><rt>いっ か</rt></ruby>そろって<ruby><rb>海外旅行</rb><rt>かい がい りょ こう</rt></ruby>だなんて、うらやましいですね。／I envy you for being able to travel abroad with all your family.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>あなたにそんなことを<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>うなんて、<ruby><rb>実</rb><rt>じつ</rt></ruby>にひどい<ruby><rb>男</rb><rt>おとこ</rt></ruby>だ。／What a truly horrible man he is to say such a thing to you!</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>こんなところであなたに<ruby><rb>会</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>うなんて、びっくりしましたよ。／It’s surprising to see you here.  </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>こんな<ruby><rb>安</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>給料</rb><rt>きゅう りょう</rt></ruby>でまじめに<ruby><rb>働</rb><rt>はたら</rt></ruby>くなんて<ruby><rb>馬鹿</rb><rt>ば か</rt></ruby>らしい。／It’s ridiculous to work hard for this low pay.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>あんな<ruby><rb>怠</rb><rt>なま</rt></ruby>け<ruby><rb>者</rb><rt>もの</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>一生懸命</rb><rt>いっ しょう けん めい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>働</rb><rt>はたら</rt></ruby>きたいなんて、<ruby><rb>嘘</rb><rt>うそ</rt></ruby>にきまっているでしょう。／There’s no way such a lazy person like that would want to work hard!</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>この<ruby><rb>吹雪</rb><rt>ふぶき</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>中</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>て<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>くなんて、<ruby><rb>命</rb><rt>いのち</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>捨</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>てに<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>くようなものだ。／Venturing out in this blizzard is like throwing your life away.</div><div class="explanation">Followed by an expression to show the speaker’s evaluation, such as うらやましい (envious) or ひどい (terrible), and indicates the thing/state/event to be evaluated. Often accompanies the speaker’s surprise, unexpectedness, or scornful feeling to consider a thing/person stupid or ridiculous. Used in casual speech.</div></body></html>