<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ものか</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x98734">【ものか】</h1><h4 class="info">［Na なものか］</h4><h4 class="info">［A-いものか］</h4><h4 class="info">［V-るものか］</h4><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x98742"><span class="number">1. </span>...ものか／...もんか</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>はさみも<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>く？／Are you taking scissors?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>そんなもの<ruby><rb>必要</rb><rt>ひつ よう</rt></ruby>なもんか。／Why would that be necessary?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>藤井</rb><rt>ふじ い</rt></ruby>さんが<ruby><rb>一番</rb><rt>いち ばん</rt></ruby>になったそうね。／They say Fujii-san has become number one.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>そんなことがあるもんか。<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>かの<ruby><rb>間違</rb><rt>ま ちが</rt></ruby>いだろう。／That can’t be! There must be some kind of mistake.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>こんな<ruby><rb>複雑</rb><rt>ふく ざつ</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>文章</rb><rt>ぶん しょう</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>訳</rb><rt>やく</rt></ruby>せるものですか。／There is no way such a complicated sentence can be translated. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>誘</rb><rt>さそ</rt></ruby>われたって、だれが<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>くものか。／Even if they invited me, there’s no way I would go. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>あんな<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>頼</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>むもんか。／There is no way I would ask such a person a favor. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><ruby><rb>誰</rb><rt>だれ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>手渡</rb><rt>て わた</rt></ruby>したりするものですか。／There is no way I would hand this over to someone else.</div><div class="explanation">With a falling intonation, expresses a feeling of strong denial. Examples (4)-(6) express the speaker’s strong intention that something will not be done. Used in casual conversation.</div><div class="explanation">Usually, ものか is used by men and the polite ものですか is used by women.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x98825"><span class="number">2. </span>V-ないものだろうか</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>もう<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>涼</rb><rt>すず</rt></ruby>しくならないものかなあ。／I wish it would get a little cooler.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>もう<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>分</rb><rt>わ</rt></ruby>かりやすく<ruby><rb>書</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>けなかったものか。／Couldn’t you have written it (in a way that would have been) a little easier to understand? </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>とかして<ruby><rb>晩</rb><rt>ばん</rt></ruby>までに<ruby><rb>青森</rb><rt>あお もり</rt></ruby>まで<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>けないものか<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えてみよう。／Let’s think if there is a way for us to get to Aomori by evening.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>だれかに<ruby><rb>協力</rb><rt>きょう りょく</rt></ruby>してもらえないものだろうか。／Can’t I get some cooperation from somebody on this?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>2<ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>通勤</rb><rt>つう きん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>とか<ruby><rb>利用</rb><rt>り よう</rt></ruby>できないものかと<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えた。／I thought about whether there was some way I could take advantage of my two-hour commute.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>と<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>しができないものでしょうか。／I wonder if we could talk to him.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>とか<ruby><rb>方法</rb><rt>ほう ほう</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えましょう。／Let me think of some way to do that.</div><div class="explanation">Shows that the speaker wishes for a certain event to take place. The ...なかったものか in example (2) contains a feeling of bewilderment that something has not taken place. Also, when used with the sentence ending (と)考える, means that whether or not the realization of an event or occurrence is possible is being considered. Can also be used, as in (6), to make a tentative request.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x98886"><span class="number">3. </span>どうしたもの（だろう）か</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>反対派</rb><rt>はん たい は</rt></ruby>への<ruby><rb>説明</rb><rt>せつ めい</rt></ruby>はどうしたものかね。／How are we supposed to explain this to the opposition?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>らに<ruby><rb>対</rb><rt>たい</rt></ruby>する<ruby><rb>報酬</rb><rt>ほう しゅう</rt></ruby>はどうしたものだろうか。／What should I do to remunerate them?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>今後</rb><rt>こん ご</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>資金繰</rb><rt>し きん ぐ</rt></ruby>りはどうしたものか、<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えさせてくれ。／Let me think a little about what we should do for funding from now on.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses a feeling of confusion over what the best course of action is. Can also be used as a question of someone present.</div></body></html>