<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>では2</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x42876">【では<sub class="variation">2</sub>】</h1><div class="explanation">Essentially a written form that is used in fairly formal situations. In casual spoken language, じゃ（あ） is used.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x42892"><span class="number">1. </span>では〈inference〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>は 1974 <ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>ねん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>卒業</rb><rt>そつ ぎょう</rt></ruby>です。／I graduated in 1974.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>では、<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>は2<ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>ねん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>後輩</rb><rt>こうはい</rt></ruby>になります。／Then I must be two years your junior.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>この1<ruby><rb>週間毎</rb><rt>しゅう かん まい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>晩</rb><rt>ばん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>帰宅</rb><rt>き たく</rt></ruby>は 12<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>過</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>ぎだよ。／I’ve been getting home after midnight every night this week.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>では、<ruby><rb>睡眠</rb><rt>すいみん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>不足</rb><rt>ぶ そく</rt></ruby>でしょう。／Then you’re probably short of sleep.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>日本語</rb><rt>に ほん ご</rt></ruby>を 10 <ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>ねん</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>習</rb><rt>なら</rt></ruby>っているんですよ。／He has been studying Japanese for some ten years.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>では、<ruby><rb>日常</rb><rt>にち じょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>会話</rb><rt>かい わ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>困</rb><rt>こま</rt></ruby>ることはないですね。／Then he probably doesn’t have any trouble with everyday conversation, does he?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>緊急</rb><rt>きん きゅう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>会議</rb><rt>かい ぎ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>ってしまいまして…／I’ve just had an urgent meeting added to my schedule...</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>では、<ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby>のパーティにはおいでになれませんね。／Oh, then you won’t be able to attend the party today, will you.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>家</rb><rt>いえ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>たときには、あの<ruby><rb>袋</rb><rt>ふくろ</rt></ruby>はたしかに<ruby><rb>手</rb><rt>て</rt></ruby>にもっていた。では、<ruby><rb>途中</rb><rt>と ちゅう</rt></ruby>のバスの<ruby><rb>中</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>忘</rb><rt>わす</rt></ruby>れたということかな。／I know I had that bag in my hand when I left home. So, I’m guessing this means I left it on the bus.</div><div class="explanation">Used at the beginning of a sentence when the speaker is making an inference, based on a newly-acquired fact or on <span class="noSeparate">his/her</span> memory of something, that leads to a conclusion. In situations such as (2)-(4), when the speaker is trying to confirm the accuracy of the inference, では functions as an expression of asking or confirmation. (5) is an example of an inference based on the speaker’s memory. In almost all cases, では can be replaced by それなら, そうしたら, （それ）だったら, （そう）すると, and other such expressions.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x42986"><span class="number">2. </span>では〈expression of attitude〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>すみません。<ruby><rb>教科書</rb><rt>きょう か しょ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>忘</rb><rt>わす</rt></ruby>れてしまいました。／I’m sorry, but I’ve forgotten my textbook.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>では、となりの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>せてもらいなさい。／Then ask the person next to you to let you look at hers.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>用紙</rb><rt>よう し</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>記入</rb><rt>き にゅう</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>終</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>わりましたが。／I’ve finished filling in this form.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>じゃ、3<ruby><rb>番</rb><rt>ばん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>窓口</rb><rt>まど ぐち</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>だ</rt></ruby>してください。／Then please submit it at Window No. 3.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>全員</rb><rt>ぜん いん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>集合</rb><rt>しゅう ごう</rt></ruby>しました。／Everyone is here.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>では、そろそろ<ruby><rb>出発</rb><rt>しゅっ ぱつ</rt></ruby>しましょう。／OK, then it’s about time to get going.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>実</rb><rt>じつ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>病気</rb><rt>びょう き</rt></ruby>なんです。／Actually, I have a sick child at home.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>では、<ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>ってもいいです。／In that case, you may go home for today.</div><div class="explanation">Appears in sentence-initial position and is used as a chance for the speaker to express an attitude arising from newly-acquired information. Followed by expressions of command, request, intention, permission, and so on. Although this では can be replaced with それなら, そしたら, and （そう）だったら, it cannot be replaced with（そう）すると.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x43074"><span class="number">3. </span>では〈shift〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>では、<ruby><rb>次</rb><rt>つぎ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>議題</rb><rt>ぎ だい</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>りましょう。／Well then, let’s move on to the next item on the agenda.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>では、<ruby><rb>始</rb><rt>はじ</rt></ruby>めましょう。／Well then, let’s begin.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>では、<ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>授業</rb><rt>じゅ ぎょう</rt></ruby>はこれで<ruby><rb>終</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>わりにします。／Well then, that’s all for today’s class.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>では、また<ruby><rb>明日</rb><rt>あした</rt></ruby>。さようなら。／All right then, see you tomorrow. Goodbye.</div><div class="explanation">Placed in sentence-initial position and used as a cue to shift focus to a new topic or situation. Followed by expressions that announce a topic shift or the commencement or conclusion of something. (4) is a formulaic expression used in leave-taking.</div></body></html>