<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>てから</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x40595">【てから】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x40597"><span class="number">1. </span>V-てから</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>先</rb><rt>さき</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>風呂</rb><rt>ふ ろ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>ってから<ruby><rb>食事</rb><rt>しょく じ</rt></ruby>にしよう。／Let’s take a bath first and then have dinner.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>遊</rb><rt>あそ</rt></ruby>びに<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>くのは<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>終</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>わってからだ。／I go out to have fun after work finishes.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>日本</rb><rt>に ほん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>てから<ruby><rb>経済</rb><rt>けい ざい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>勉強</rb><rt>べん きょう</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>始</rb><rt>はじ</rt></ruby>めた。／I started studying economics after arriving in Japan.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>夏休</rb><rt>なつ やす</rt></ruby>みになってから<ruby><rb>一度</rb><rt>いち ど</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>学校</rb><rt>がっ こう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>っていない。／I haven’t been to school even once since summer vacation started.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>昼休</rb><rt>ひる やす</rt></ruby>みですので、1<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby>になってから<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>て<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>くだ</rt></ruby>さい。／It’s the lunch break now, so please come after one o’clock.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses that X is done before Y. In (1), for example, it expresses the time sequence where 風呂に入る is done before 食事をする.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x40640"><span class="number">2. </span>V-てからでないと</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x40643"><span class="number">a. </span>V-てからでないとV-ない</h3><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>いっしょに<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>ろうよ。／Let’s go back together.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>この<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>終</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>わってからでないと<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>れないんだ。／I can’t leave until I finish this job.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>わが<ruby><rb>社</rb><rt>しゃ</rt></ruby>では、<ruby><rb>社長</rb><rt>しゃ ちょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>許可</rb><rt>きょ か</rt></ruby>をもらってからでなければ<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>もできない。／In our company, we can’t do anything unless we first get permission from the president.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>まずボタンを<ruby><rb>押</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>して、<ruby><rb>次</rb><rt>つぎ</rt></ruby>にレバーを<ruby><rb>引</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>いて<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>くだ</rt></ruby>さい。ボタンを<ruby><rb>押</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>してからでなければ、レバーはうごきません。／Please push the button first, then pull the lever. The lever won’t move unless you push the button.</div><div class="explanation">Patterns such as Xてからでないと／なければ／なかったらY express a condition X which has to be fulfilled in order to realize something Y. This means that Y can only be done after X is done. In some cases, expressions of time are used with it, as in the following examples.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（例）</span>3日からでないとその仕事にはかかれない。／I can’t start the job unless it’s from the 3rd.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（例）</span>1時からでなければ会議に出席できない。／I can’t attend the meeting unless it starts at one o’clock.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x40704"><span class="number">b. </span>V-てからでないとV-る</h3><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あした、うちへ<ruby><rb>泊</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>まりにおいでよ。／Come and stay over at my house tomorrow.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>後</rb><rt>あと</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>返事</rb><rt>へん じ</rt></ruby>するよ。お<ruby><rb>母</rb><rt>かあ</rt></ruby>さんに<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>いてからでないとおこられるから。／I’ll let you know later. If I don’t ask my mother first, she’ll get angry with me. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>きちんと<ruby><rb>確</rb><rt>たし</rt></ruby>かめてからでないと<ruby><rb>失敗</rb><rt>しっ ぱい</rt></ruby>するよ。／You will fail if you don’t check it properly first.</div><div class="explanation">Patterns such as Xてからでないと／なければ／なかったら Y express that “if X is not done, then Y will happen.” Situation Y is usually something negative.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x40741"><span class="number">3. </span>V-てからというもの（は）</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>学生</rb><rt>がく せい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>時代</rb><rt>じ だい</rt></ruby>には、なんとなくたよりない<ruby><rb>感</rb><rt>かん</rt></ruby>じだったが、<ruby><rb>就職</rb><rt>しゅう しょく</rt></ruby>してからというもの<ruby><rb>見違</rb><rt>み ちが</rt></ruby>えるようにしっかりした<ruby><rb>女性</rb><rt>じょ せい</rt></ruby>になった。／She gave the feeling of being unreliable in her student days, but now it’s hard to recognize her as the very dependable woman she’s become since she started working.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は、その<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>出会</rb><rt>で あ</rt></ruby>ってからというもの、<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>変</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>わったようにまじめになった。／Ever since he met that person, he has become very serious, as if his personality changed.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>70 <ruby><rb>才</rb><rt>さい</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>過</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>ぎても<ruby><rb>元気</rb><rt>げん き</rt></ruby>だったのに、<ruby><rb>去年</rb><rt>きょ ねん</rt></ruby>つれあいをなくしてからというものは、<ruby><rb>別人</rb><rt>べつ じん</rt></ruby>のようになってしまった。／Here he was hale and hearty even after seventy, but after losing his better half last year, he’s become like a different person.</div><div class="explanation">Means “triggered by an incident.” Used when expressing that a substantial change has taken place since such an incident. Has the feel of written language.</div></body></html>