<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>なさい</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x63015">【なさい】</h1><h4 class="info">［R-なさい］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>うるさい。すこし<ruby><rb>静</rb><rt>しず</rt></ruby>かにしなさい。／You’re making too much noise! Quiet down a little.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>明日</rb><rt>あ す</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>学校</rb><rt>がっ こう</rt></ruby>があるんだから、<ruby><rb>早</rb><rt>はや</rt></ruby>く<ruby><rb>寝</rb><rt>ね</rt></ruby>なさい。／Tomorrow is another school day, so hurry up and go to bed.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あいつ、<ruby><rb>本当</rb><rt>ほん  とう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>馬鹿</rb><rt>ば か</rt></ruby>なんだから。／That guy is a real idiot!</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>よしなさいよ。そんな<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>かた</rt></ruby>するの。／Cut it out! Don’t talk that way.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>明日</rb><rt>あ す</rt></ruby>のパーティー、どうするの？／Are you going to the party tomorrow?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>こうかな。どうしようかな。／Hmm...I wonder. Should I go, or not?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>迷</rb><rt>まよ</rt></ruby>ってないで、<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>きなさいよ。<ruby><rb>絶対</rb><rt>ぜっ たい</rt></ruby>おもしろいから。／Don’t think about it too much, just go! I’m sure it’ll be fun.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>《<ruby><rb>試験</rb><rt>し けん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>》<ruby><rb>次</rb><rt>つぎ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>文</rb><rt>ぶん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>読</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>んで、<ruby><rb>記号</rb><rt>き ごう</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>答</rb><rt>こた</rt></ruby>えなさい。／《exam question》Read the following passage and answer the questions, using the symbols.</div><div class="explanation">Indicates a command or instruction. Often used by people in supervisory positions. For instance, parents use it to address children, and teachers to address students. However, なさい can also be used between people with close relationships, such as family or friends, as shown in (3) and (4). (3) is an expression of prohibition used to admonish the addressee regarding his words and actions, and (4) is a strong suggestion. なさい may also be used in the instructions for exam questions, as in (5).</div><div class="explanation">ごめんなさい (I’m sorry) is an expression of apology used between people with a close relationship. おやすみなさい (Good night/Sleep well) is a conventionalized expression used before going to bed.</div></body></html>