<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>つまり</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x38172">【つまり】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x38177"><span class="number">1. </span>つまり〈restatement〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>母</rb><rt>はは</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>弟</rb><rt>おとうと</rt></ruby>、つまり<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>叔父</rb><rt>お じ</rt></ruby>である。／He is my mother’s younger brother, namely, my uncle.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>両親</rb><rt>りょう しん</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>終戦</rb><rt>しゅう せん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>翌年</rb><rt>よく ねん</rt></ruby>、つまり1946 <ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>ねん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>結婚</rb><rt>けっ こん</rt></ruby>した。／My parents married the year after the end of the war, that is, in 1946.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>相思相愛</rb><rt>そう し そう あい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>仲</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>とは、つまりお<ruby><rb>互</rb><rt>たが</rt></ruby>いのことを<ruby><rb>心底</rb><rt>しんそこ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>愛</rb><rt>あい</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>合</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>っている<ruby><rb>関係</rb><rt>かん けい</rt></ruby>のことである。／“Mutual loving relationship” means a relationship of deep love for each other.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span>この<ruby><rb>件</rb><rt>けん</rt></ruby>については、ちょっと<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えさせてください。／Please let me think about this matter a little.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>つまり「<ruby><rb>引</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>受</rb><rt>う</rt></ruby>けていただけない」ということですね。／So you can’t agree to do it, is that it?</div><div class="explanation">Used for replacing a phrase or sentence by a different expression that has the same meaning. For example, in (4), following the listener’s statement, the speaker is replacing it using his own words. While close to すなわち, つまり is more like spoken language. Hence in conversation, like example (4), replacing it with すなわち would be unnatural.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x38229"><span class="number">2. </span>つまり（は）〈conclusion〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>つまり、<ruby><rb>責任</rb><rt>せき にん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>自分</rb><rt>じ ぶん</rt></ruby>にはないとおっしゃりたいのですね。／Thus, what you want to say is that you have no responsibility for this.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>教育</rb><rt>きょう いく</rt></ruby>は、つまりは、<ruby><rb>家庭</rb><rt>か てい</rt></ruby>でのしつけの<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>だ。／Children’s education is ultimately a question of discipline at home.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>まあ、それほど<ruby><rb>忙</rb><rt>いそが</rt></ruby>しいというわけでもないんですけど…。／Well, it isn’t that I’m that busy, but....</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>つまり、<ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>きみ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>いたいんだ。／So what is it that you want to say?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>いたいことは、つまり、この<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>責任</rb><rt>せき にん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>経営者</rb><rt>けいえいしゃ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>側</rb><rt>がわ</rt></ruby>にあって…。そのつまり、<ruby><rb>社員</rb><rt>しゃ いん</rt></ruby>はその<ruby><rb>犠牲者</rb><rt>ぎ せい しゃ</rt></ruby>だということです。／What I want to say is that the responsibility for this problem is on the side of the management, and that in essence means the employees are the victims.</div><div class="explanation">Used when describing a final conclusion without going into an explanation of the development leading to it. In (1) and (3), it is used to confirm or facilitate the listener’s conclusion. Can also be used in the form つまりは. In (4), つまり is used in spoken language conjunctively. Often replaced by 結局 or 要するに.</div></body></html>