<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>だとすると</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x32026">【だとすると】</h1><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>近</rb><rt>ちか</rt></ruby>くに<ruby><rb>大</rb><rt>おお</rt></ruby>きなホテルができるのは<ruby><rb>確実</rb><rt>かく じつ</rt></ruby>です。／It’s definite that a large hotel will be built near here.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>だとすると、この<ruby><rb>町</rb><rt>まち</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>雇用率</rb><rt>こ よう りつ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>上</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>がるかもしれませんね。／In that case, the employment rate in this town may go up.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>飛行機</rb><rt>ひ こう き</rt></ruby>が 10 <ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>れてるんだそうです。／Apparently the flight has been delayed by ten hours.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>だとすると、<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>りはあしたになるな。／That means he’ll be coming back tomorrow.</div><div class="explanation">Essentially the same as だとすれば. そうだとすると is also used.</div><h4 class="reference">→<a href="part0395.xhtml#idtitlex1x32080">【だとすれば】</a></h4></body></html>