<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ともかく</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x59160">【ともかく】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x59162"><span class="number">1. </span>Nはともかく（として）</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>かけはともかく<ruby><rb>味</rb><rt>あじ</rt></ruby>はよい。／This may not look good, but it tastes delicious.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>学歴</rb><rt>がく れき</rt></ruby>はともかく<ruby><rb>人柄</rb><rt>ひと がら</rt></ruby>にやや<ruby><rb>難点</rb><rt>なん てん</rt></ruby>がある。／His educational background is fine, but there is a little problem with his personality.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>奥</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>さんはともかくとしてご<ruby><rb>主人</rb><rt>しゅ じん</rt></ruby>はとてもいい<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>だ。／I can’t say much about the wife, but the husband is a very nice person. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>細</rb><rt>こま</rt></ruby>かい<ruby><rb>点</rb><rt>てん</rt></ruby>はともかく<ruby><rb>全体的</rb><rt>ぜん たい てき</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>れば、うまく<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ったと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>えるのではなかろうか。／Putting aside the details, can we not conclude that on the whole it went very well?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>勝敗</rb><rt>しょう はい</rt></ruby>はともかくとして、<ruby><rb>一生懸命</rb><rt>いっ しょう けん めい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>頑張</rb><rt>がん ば</rt></ruby>ろう。／Whether we win or lose, let’s make every effort to do our best.</div><div class="explanation">Nはともかく means “putting aside N (for the moment).” It is used to say that the matter described after ともかく is more important and should be given priority. Nはとにかく(として) can also be used.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x59205"><span class="number">2. </span>ともかくV</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>雨</rb><rt>あめ</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>中止</rb><rt>ちゅう し</rt></ruby>になるかもしれないが、ともかく<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ってみよう。／It may get rained out, but let’s go anyway.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>ともかく、<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>われたことだけはやっておきました。／Anyway, I did what I was told.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>ともかく<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>ってみないことにはいい<ruby><rb>製品</rb><rt>せい ひん</rt></ruby>かどうかは<ruby><rb>分</rb><rt>わ</rt></ruby>からない。／I can’t tell whether this is a good product or not until I actually use it.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>ともかくお<ruby><rb>医者</rb><rt>い しゃ</rt></ruby>さんに<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>てもらった<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>がよい。／You should go and see a doctor anyway.</div><div class="explanation">Used with verbs that express an intentional act, ともかく means to go ahead and take action, rather than spending time debating the pros and cons of that action. ともかく can be replaced by とにかく.</div></body></html>