<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>はい</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x80529">【はい】</h1><div class="explanation">Used to express an affirmative answer, a back-channel response (see below), and so on. うん and ええ are similar to はい. However, うん is used only in informal situations with family members, friends, or other people who have a close relationship to the speaker, or towards people of lower status than the speaker. In formal situations, はい or ええ is used. To express a negative answer, いいえ, ううん, and いや are used.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x80544"><span class="number">1. </span>はい〈affirmation〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>これはあなたの<ruby><rb>本</rb><rt>ほん</rt></ruby>ですか。／Is this your book?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい、そうです。／Yes, it is.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>明日</rb><rt>あ す</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>学校</rb><rt>がっ こう</rt></ruby>へいきますか。／Are you going to school tomorrow?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい、<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>きます。／Yes, I am.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>おいしいですか。／Is it good?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい、とてもおいしいです。／Yes, it’s really delicious.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>便利</rb><rt>べん り</rt></ruby>ですか。／Is it convenient?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい、<ruby><rb>便利</rb><rt>べん り</rt></ruby>です。／Yes, it is convenient.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>国</rb><rt>くに</rt></ruby>へ<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>るんですか。／So, are you going back to your country?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい、そうです。／Yes, I am.</div><div class="explanation">Used in reply to a question the speaker has asked to confirm whether or not a judgment <span class="noSeparate">s/he</span> has made is correct. Means that the speaker’s judgment is, in fact, correct. In this case, はい、そうです can be used only in response to a question about a noun, as exemplified in (1).</div><div class="explanation">When responding to a question with a verb or an adjective, the same verb or adjective must be repeated, as shown in (2), (3) and (4). However, if the question form is のですか or んですか, as in (5), then はい、そうです can be used.</div><div class="explanation xtalk"><span class="type">（例）</span><span class="number">A:</span>これは、あなたの車ではありませんね。／This isn’t your car, is it?</div><div class="explanation xtalk"><span class="type"></span>B1: はい、ちがいます。／That’s right, it isn’t.</div><div class="explanation xtalk"><span class="type"></span>B2: いいえ、わたしのです。／Actually (= that’s wrong), it is mine.</div><div class="explanation">With a negative question like the one in the example above, はい is used when the speaker’s judgment is correct, and いいえ is used when <span class="noSeparate">his/her</span> judgment is incorrect. Thus, if the judgment “this is not your car” is correct, the response should be はい, as in B1’s response はい、違います (That’s right, it isn’t) or はい、私の車ではありません (That’s right, it’s not my car).</div><div class="explanation">As can be seen in the examples above, the answer to a negative question is はい when the expectation or judgment of the person asking the question is correct, and いいえ when it is not. In other words, the answer is not determined by whether the judgment itself is affirmative or negative. In actual conversation, answering a negative question without はい or いいえ is also common.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x80715"><span class="number">2. </span>はい〈consent〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ってくれますね。／You’ll go for me, won’t you?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい。／Yes. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>いっしょにやりましょう。／Let’s do it together.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい。／Yes, let’s. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>これをあっちに<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ってください。／Please take this over there.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい、わかりました。／All right, I will.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span>いっしょに<ruby><rb>食事</rb><rt>しょく じ</rt></ruby>をしませんか。／Shall we have dinner together?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span>B1: はい、<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>きましょう。／B1: Yes, let’s go.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span>B2: いや、<ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby>はちょっと。／B2: Actually, today’s not so good for me....</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number"><ruby><rb>母</rb><rt>はは</rt></ruby>:</span><ruby><rb>早</rb><rt>はや</rt></ruby>くおふろに<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>りなさい。／Mother: Hurry up and get into the bath.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number"><ruby><rb>子</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>:</span>はいはい。／Child: Yes, yes!</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number"><ruby><rb>母</rb><rt>はは</rt></ruby>:</span>「はい」は、<ruby><rb>一回</rb><rt>いっ かい</rt></ruby>！／Mother: You only need to say “yes” once!</div><div class="explanation">Used to consent to a request, demand, invitation, etc. (4) is in the form of a question, but since it is a request, not an inquiry to confirm whether or not something is correct, consent is indicated by the use of はい. When declining a request, speakers tend not to use いいえ, since it may sound like a rather strong refusal. As shown in (5), repetition of はい in response to a request or demand sounds rather rude, because it gives the impression that the speaker is responding reluctantly.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x80841"><span class="number">3. </span>はい〈response〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>山田</rb><rt>やま だ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>くん</rt></ruby>。／Yamada-kun?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい。／Yes.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>ちょっとおたずねしますが...。／Could I ask you something...?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい。／Yes.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あのう。／Excuse me....</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい。／Yes?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span>おーい。ちょっと。／Hey, you there.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい。／Yes?</div><div class="explanation">Used by an addressee to respond when someone calls out to <span class="noSeparate">him/her</span>, when attendance is being taken, and so on. In this case, ええ cannot be used. In casual situations, the addressee may also respond with はあい, なに, なあに, etc.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x80929"><span class="number">4. </span>はい〈back-channel response〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>《<ruby><rb>電話</rb><rt>でん わ</rt></ruby>で》／《on the phone》</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>来週</rb><rt>らい しゅう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>旅行</rb><rt>りょ こう</rt></ruby>のことですが...。／About the trip next week....</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい。／Yes.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>他</rb><rt>ほか</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>かた</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>皆</rb><rt>みな</rt></ruby>さんいらっしゃることになったんですが...。／All the others have decided to go, but....</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>あ、はい。／Oh, really.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>ええ、それで、Bさんのご<ruby><rb>都合</rb><rt>つ ごう</rt></ruby>はどうかと<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>いまして...。／Yes, so I’m wondering whether or not you can go too....</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>すみません。それがですねえ。<ruby><rb>急</rb><rt>きゅう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>用事</rb><rt>よう じ</rt></ruby>ができてしまいまして、<ruby><rb>申</rb><rt>もう</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>訳</rb><rt>わけ</rt></ruby>ないんですが...。／I’m sorry. About that, you know...something has come up all of a sudden. I’m very sorry, but....</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>だめですか...。／So you can’t come....</div><div class="explanation">はい, ええ and うん are often used as “back-channel” responses. These are brief responses that show only that the addressee understands or is listening to what the speaker is saying. They do not mean that the addressee agrees with the speaker. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x81021"><span class="number">5. </span>はい〈getting someone’s attention〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>はい、みなさんこっちを<ruby><rb>向</rb><rt>む</rt></ruby>いて。／Okay, everyone, look over here. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>はい、みなさん<ruby><rb>出発</rb><rt>しゅっ ぱつ</rt></ruby>しますよ。／All right, everyone, we’re leaving now.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>はいどうぞ。／Here you are.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>はい、お<ruby><rb>茶</rb><rt>ちゃ</rt></ruby>。／Here is your tea.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>はい、これでございます。／Here you are, this is it.</div><div class="explanation">Used to attract the addressee’s attention. In this case, うん and ええ cannot be used.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x81067"><span class="number">6. </span>はい〈confirmation〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>おじいさんは、こちらには<ruby><rb>長</rb><rt>なが</rt></ruby>くお<ruby><rb>住</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>まいですか。／Has this been your home for a long time, Grandfather?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>ですか。<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>戦前</rb><rt>せん ぜん</rt></ruby>からずっとここに<ruby><rb>住</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>んでおります。はい。／Me? I’ve been living here since before the war. Yes.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number"><ruby><rb>客</rb><rt>きゃく</rt></ruby>:</span>どっちが<ruby><rb>似合</rb><rt>に あ</rt></ruby>うかしら。／Customer: I wonder which one looks best on me.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><ruby><rb>店員</rb><rt>てん いん</rt></ruby>: そりゃもう、どちらもお<ruby><rb>似合</rb><rt>に あ</rt></ruby>いでございます。はい。／Salesperson: Well, I would say that both of them suit you. Yes, indeed.</div><div class="explanation">When a speaker adds はい to the end of one of <span class="noSeparate">his/her</span> own statements or remarks, it sounds like <span class="noSeparate">s/he</span> is confirming what <span class="noSeparate">s/he</span> has just said. Sounds old-fashioned or humble.</div></body></html>