<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>それでこそ</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x27097">【それでこそ】</h1><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>部下</rb><rt>ぶ か</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>失敗</rb><rt>しっ ぱい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>責任</rb><rt>せき にん</rt></ruby>をとって、<ruby><rb>社長</rb><rt>しゃ ちょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>座</rb><rt>ざ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>りた。それでこそ<ruby><rb>真</rb><rt>しん</rt></ruby>のリーダーと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>える。／He took responsibility for his subordinate’s mistake and stepped down as company president. That’s what we can call a true leader.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あの<ruby><rb>大学</rb><rt>だい がく</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>卒業</rb><rt>そつ ぎょう</rt></ruby>するのがむずかしいそうだよ。／I’ve heard that university is hard to graduate from.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>それでこそ<ruby><rb>本当</rb><rt>ほん  とう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>大学</rb><rt>だい がく</rt></ruby>だね。／That’s how a real university should be.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>今度</rb><rt>こん ど</rt></ruby>のコピー<ruby><rb>機</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>は、まったく<ruby><rb>人手</rb><rt>ひと で</rt></ruby>がいらないそうだ。／I hear the new photocopier doesn’t need anyone to operate it at all.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>それでこそオフィス<ruby><rb>革命</rb><rt>かく めい</rt></ruby>と<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>えるね。<ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby>までのは<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>忙</rb><rt>いそが</rt></ruby>しくさせるだけだったから。／You can call that a real office revolution, can’t you. Up till now it had just made people even busier.</div><div class="explanation">Used at the beginning of a sentence, this means “because of, for that reason.” Used to highlight a certain quality of a person or thing and express a high evaluation of that person/thing, based on the previously-stated reason. Used only for positive evaluation. An old-fashioned expression. In conversation, it is often used in semi-formulaic expressions such as それでこそ本当のNだ  (that’s a real/true N.)</div></body></html>