<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>からする</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x13351">【からする】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x13353"><span class="number">1. </span>Nからすると</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>あの<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>かた</rt></ruby>からすると、<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>はあの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>にきらわれているようだ。／From the way he spoke, he really seems to dislike me.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>あの<ruby><rb>態度</rb><rt>たい ど</rt></ruby>からすると、<ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>引</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>さ</rt></ruby>がる<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>はまったくないようだ。／From her attitude, she doesn’t intend to back down at all.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>あの<ruby><rb>口</rb><rt>くち</rt></ruby>ぶりからすると、<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>はもうその<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>知</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>っているようだな。／Judging from the way he talks, he already seems to know what was said.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>性格</rb><rt>せい かく</rt></ruby>からすると、そんなことで<ruby><rb>納得</rb><rt>なっ とく</rt></ruby>するはずがないよ。／Judging from her character, there’s no way she could be persuaded.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses the basis for making a judgment. からして, からみて and からいって are also used to express the same meaning.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x13390"><span class="number">2. </span><ruby><rb>数</rb><rt>すう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>量</rb><rt>りょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>詞</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>+からする<span class="reference">→<a href="part0151.xhtml#idsubsubtitlex1x12732">【から<sub class="Subscript">1</sub>】9b</a></span></h2></body></html>