<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ちがいない</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x35560">【ちがいない】</h1><h4 class="info">［N／Na　 （である）にちがいない］</h4><h4 class="info">［A／V　にちがいない］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>あんなすばらしい<ruby><rb>車</rb><rt>くるま</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>っているのだから、<ruby><rb>田村</rb><rt>た むら</rt></ruby>さんは<ruby><rb>金持</rb><rt>かね も</rt></ruby>ちにちがいない。／Tamura-san must be very rich to be driving such a splendid car.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>あそこにかかっている<ruby><rb>絵</rb><rt>え</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>素晴</rb><rt>す ば</rt></ruby>らしい。<ruby><rb>値段</rb><rt>ね だん</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>高</rb><rt>たか</rt></ruby>いにちがいない。／The picture hanging there is outstanding. It must also have had a high price.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>学生</rb><rt>がく せい</rt></ruby>のゆううつそうな<ruby><rb>様子</rb><rt>よう す</rt></ruby>からすると、<ruby><rb>試験</rb><rt>し けん</rt></ruby>はむずかしかったにちがいない。／Judging from the students’ depressed looks, the exam must have been difficult.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>幸</rb><rt>しあわ</rt></ruby>せそうな<ruby><rb>顔</rb><rt>かお</rt></ruby>をごらんなさい。きっといい<ruby><rb>知</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>らせだったにちがいありません。／Look at that guy’s happy face. It must have been good news.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>規則</rb><rt>き そく</rt></ruby>をわざと<ruby><rb>破</rb><rt>やぶ</rt></ruby>るような<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>ではない。きっと<ruby><rb>知</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>らなかったにちがいない。／He’s not someone who would break rules deliberately. He must have not known. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><span class="number">A:</span>この<ruby><rb>足跡</rb><rt>あし あと</rt></ruby>は？／What’s this footprint?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>あの<ruby><rb>男</rb><rt>おとこ</rt></ruby>のものだ。<ruby><rb>犯人</rb><rt>はん にん</rt></ruby>はあいつに<ruby><rb>違</rb><rt>ちが</rt></ruby>いない。／It’s that man’s. He must be the culprit.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses that, based on some sort of evidence, the speaker is certain about a matter. The degree of the speaker’s certainty about or possession of an idea is higher than when using だろう. This is frequently used in written language, but it tends to sound exaggerated; thus, with the exception of circumstances like (6), expressions such as きっと...と思います are used instead.</div></body></html>