<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ておく</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x40513">【ておく】</h1><h4 class="info">［V-ておく］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>このワインは<ruby><rb>冷</rb><rt>つめ</rt></ruby>たい<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>がいいから、<ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>むときまで<ruby><rb>冷蔵庫</rb><rt>れい ぞう こ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>れておこう。／This wine is better chilled, so let’s keep it in the fridge until we’re ready to drink it.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>るとき<ruby><rb>窓</rb><rt>まど</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>開</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>けておいてください。／Please leave the window open when you leave.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>その<ruby><rb>書類</rb><rt>しょ るい</rt></ruby>はあとで<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>ますから、そこに<ruby><rb>置</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>いておいて<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>くだ</rt></ruby>さい。／I’ll look at the document later, so please leave it there.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>岡田</rb><rt>おか だ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>教授</rb><rt>きょう じゅ</rt></ruby>にお<ruby><rb>目</rb><rt>め</rt></ruby>にかかりたいんですが。／I would like to see Professor Okada.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>じゃあ、<ruby><rb>電話</rb><rt>でん わ</rt></ruby>しておくよ。<ruby><rb>向</rb><rt>む</rt></ruby>こうの<ruby><rb>都合</rb><rt>つ ごう</rt></ruby>がつけば、<ruby><rb>来週</rb><rt>らい しゅう</rt></ruby>にでも<ruby><rb>会</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>えると<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>うよ。／Then I’ll call her. If she’s available, I think you can see her as soon as next week.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>インドネシアへ<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>く<ruby><rb>前</rb><rt>まえ</rt></ruby>にインドネシア<ruby><rb>語</rb><rt>ご</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>習</rb><rt>なら</rt></ruby>っておくつもりだ。／Before I go to Indonesia, I intend to learn Indonesian.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>よし<ruby><rb>子</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>れて<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>てもわかるように、<ruby><rb>伝言板</rb><rt>でん ごん ばん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>地図</rb><rt>ち ず</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>書</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>いておいた。／So that Yoshiko will know, even if she arrives late, I drew a map on the notice board.</div><div class="explanation">ておく has the meaning of “taking an action and maintaining the situation which has come about as a result of such action.” Depending on the context, it can mean either a temporary measure or preparation for the future. ...てある also expresses preparation for the future. Apart from the structural difference,  ...ておく differs from ...てある in that the former expresses that the preparation has to take place while the latter expresses that the preparation has already been done. In spoken language, ...ておく becomes ...とく.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（例）</span>お母さんに話しとくね。／I’ll let Mom know.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（例）</span>ビール冷やしといてね。／Please chill the beer ahead of time.</div></body></html>