<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>にそくして</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x72259">【にそくして】</h1><h4 class="info">［Nにそくして］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>事実</rb><rt>じ じつ</rt></ruby>にそくして<ruby><rb>想像</rb><rt>そう ぞう</rt></ruby>をまじえないで<ruby><rb>事件</rb><rt>じ けん</rt></ruby>について<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>してください。／Based on the facts and without embellishing, please tell me about the incident.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>経験</rb><rt>けい けん</rt></ruby>にそくしていうと、ぼくの<ruby><rb>人生</rb><rt>じん せい</rt></ruby>にとって<ruby><rb>若</rb><rt>わか</rt></ruby>いときの<ruby><rb>異文化</rb><rt>い ぶん か</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>体験</rb><rt>たい けん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>意味</rb><rt>い み</rt></ruby>はとても<ruby><rb>大</rb><rt>おお</rt></ruby>きい。／Based on past experiences, my encountering different cultures in my youth has had a great significance in my life.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>ゼロ<ruby><rb>才児</rb><rt>さい じ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>保育</rb><rt>ほ いく</rt></ruby>につきましてはそれぞれの<ruby><rb>家庭</rb><rt>か てい</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>事情</rb><rt>じ じょう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>異</rb><rt>こと</rt></ruby>なると<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>いますから、<ruby><rb>実情</rb><rt>じつ じょう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>即</rb><rt>そく</rt></ruby>して<ruby><rb>対処</rb><rt>たい しょ</rt></ruby>いたします。／I think the care of babies under the age of one differs from family to family, so I will deal with this to meet the needs of the actual circumstances. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>この<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>私的</rb><rt>し てき</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>感情</rb><rt>かん じょう</rt></ruby>ではなく、<ruby><rb>法</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>にそくして<ruby><rb>解釈</rb><rt>かい しゃく</rt></ruby>しなければならない。／This problem must be solved in accordance with the law and not personal feelings.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>法律</rb><rt>ほう りつ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>則</rb><rt>そく</rt></ruby>して<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>うと、<ruby><rb>今回</rb><rt>こん かい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>事件</rb><rt>じ けん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>刑事事件</rb><rt>けい じ じ けん</rt></ruby>として<ruby><rb>取</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>り<ruby><rb>扱</rb><rt>あつか</rt></ruby>うべき<ruby><rb>性格</rb><rt>せい かく</rt></ruby>のものだ。／Based on the law, this incident is characteristic of a criminal case and should be treated accordingly.</div><div class="explanation">With a noun expressing a fact, experience, or a norm, にそくして expresses the meaning of “along something,” “following something” or “based on something.” When にそくして is preceded by a noun expressing a fact or experience, 即して is used as shown in (1)-(3), whereas when it is preceded by a noun expressing a law or a norm, 則して is used as shown in (4) and (5).</div></body></html>