<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>たらどうか</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x34510">【たらどうか】</h1><h4 class="info">［V-たらどうか］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>別</rb><rt>べつ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>方法</rb><rt>ほう ほう</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>実験</rb><rt>じっ けん</rt></ruby>してみたらどうでしょうか。／How about experimenting with a different method?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>しお<ruby><rb>酒</rb><rt>さけ</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>んでみたらいかがですか。<ruby><rb>気分</rb><rt>き ぶん</rt></ruby>がよくなりますよ。／Why don’t you take a little something—even alcohol? You’ll feel better.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>遊</rb><rt>あそ</rt></ruby>んでばかりいないで、たまには<ruby><rb>勉強</rb><rt>べん きょう</rt></ruby>したらどう？／Instead of playing all the time, how about studying occasionally? </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>さっさと<ruby><rb>白状</rb><rt>はく じょう</rt></ruby>したらどうなんだ。／Now, come on—let's fess up!</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>アメリカに<ruby><rb>留学</rb><rt>りゅう がく</rt></ruby>してみたらどうかと<ruby><rb>先生</rb><rt>せん せい</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>勧</rb><rt>すす</rt></ruby>められた。／I was encouraged by my teacher to consider study abroad in the U.S.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>吉田</rb><rt>よし だ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>くん</rt></ruby>、パーティーには<ruby><rb>出席</rb><rt>しゅっ せき</rt></ruby>しないって。／Yoshida-kun said that he won’t join the party.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>もう<ruby><rb>一度</rb><rt>いち ど</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>誘</rb><rt>さそ</rt></ruby>ってみたら？／Why don’t you invite him again? </div><div class="explanation">Idiomatic expression used in a proposal or a recommendation. Oten used in the form V-てみたらどうか. Has almost the same meaning as てはどうか, but たらどうか is more colloquial. In colloquial language, たらどうなの／どうかしら is used by women, たらどうなんだ is used by men, and たらどう is used by both men and women. However, in formal situations, たらいかがですか／いかがでしょうか is used.</div><div class="explanation">(3) and (4) are examples of when the listener simply won’t follow the speaker’s warning or recommendation; they imply the speaker’s irritation. The latter half of (6) is abbreviated and pronounced with a rising tone.</div></body></html>