<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>てもいい</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x45945">【てもいい】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x45950"><span class="number">1. </span>V-てもいい〈permission〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>ってもいいですか。／May I come in?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>どうぞ。／Please do.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>すみません、ここに<ruby><rb>座</rb><rt>すわ</rt></ruby>ってもいいですか。／Excuse me, may I sit here?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>あの、<ruby><rb>連</rb><rt>つ</rt></ruby>れがいるんですけど...。／Umm, I’m afraid I have someone with me....</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>この<ruby><rb>服</rb><rt>ふく</rt></ruby>、ちょっと<ruby><rb>着</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>てみてもいいですか。／May I just try these clothes on?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい、どうぞ。／Yes, go ahead.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>あそこは、<ruby><rb>夕方</rb><rt>ゆう がた</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>八時</rb><rt>はち じ</rt></ruby>から<ruby><rb>朝六時</rb><rt>あさ ろく じ</rt></ruby>までは<ruby><rb>駐車</rb><rt>ちゅう しゃ</rt></ruby>してもいいらしい。／Apparently it’s all right to park there from eight in the evening to six in the morning.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あしたは<ruby><rb>何時</rb><rt>なん じ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>く</rt></ruby>ればいいでしょうか。／What time should I come tomorrow?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>10 <ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby>ぐらいに<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>てくれますか。／Could you come at about ten?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>あの、ちょっと<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>れてもいいですか。／Umm, is it all right if I’m little late?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><span class="number">A:</span>すみませんが、ここで<ruby><rb>写真</rb><rt>しゃ しん</rt></ruby>をとってもいいですか。／Excuse me, may I take photos here?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>申</rb><rt>もう</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>訳</rb><rt>わけ</rt></ruby>ありませんが、ここでは<ruby><rb>撮影</rb><rt>さつ えい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>禁止</rb><rt>きん し</rt></ruby>になっております。／I’m sorry, but photography is not permitted here.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span>この<ruby><rb>部屋</rb><rt>へ や</rt></ruby>のものは<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なん</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>自由</rb><rt>じ ゆう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>って（も）いいと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>われました。／I was told we’re free to use anything in this room.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（8）</span><ruby><rb>母</rb><rt>はは</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>将来</rb><rt>しょう らい</rt></ruby>は、わたしの<ruby><rb>好</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>きなようにして（も）いいと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>った。／My mother told me that in the future I can do as I like.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（9）</span><ruby><rb>明日</rb><rt>あした</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>特</rb><rt>とく</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>用</rb><rt>よう</rt></ruby>もないから、<ruby><rb>別</rb><rt>べつ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>なくてもいいですよ。／There’s nothing in particular for us to do tomorrow, so you don’t have to come.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（10）</span><ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>めないのなら<ruby><rb>無理</rb><rt>む り</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>まなくてもいいよ。／If you can’t drink, then there’s no need to force yourself.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses permission or approval. In conversation, it is used to give permission to or to seek permission from the other person. Also used in the form V-てもよい. Essentially synonymous with V-てもかまわない. Vていい is also used.</div><div class="explanation">When setting the time for an appointment, it is not correct to say 何時に来てもいいですか (What time may I come?). 何時に来たらいいですか or 何時に来ればいいですか should be used instead (What time should I come?).</div><div class="explanation">As shown in (9) and (10), ...なくてもいい means ...する必要がない (it is not necessary to...).</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x46116"><span class="number">2. </span>V-てもいい〈possibility〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>ワインのかわりに、しょうゆで<ruby><rb>味</rb><rt>あじ</rt></ruby>をつけてもいい。／Instead of wine, soy sauce may also be used for flavoring.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>そのときすぐ<ruby><rb>断</rb><rt>ことわ</rt></ruby>ってもよかったのだが、<ruby><rb>失礼</rb><rt>しつ れい</rt></ruby>だと<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>ったので、そうしなかったのだ。／I could have refused right then, but I thought it would be impolite, so I didn’t.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>滞在</rb><rt>たい ざい</rt></ruby>をもう<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>延</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>ばしてもよかったのだが、<ruby><rb>切符</rb><rt>きっ ぷ</rt></ruby>がとれたので、<ruby><rb>予定通</rb><rt>よ てい どお</rt></ruby>り<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>た。／We could have stayed a little longer, but since we managed to get tickets, we returned home as scheduled.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>就職</rb><rt>しゅう しょく</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>とき</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>東京</rb><rt>とう きょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>会社</rb><rt>かい しゃ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>選</rb><rt>えら</rt></ruby>んでもよかったのだが、<ruby><rb>最終的</rb><rt>さい しゅう てき</rt></ruby>には、<ruby><rb>郷里</rb><rt>きょう り</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>る<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>をとったのだ。／When I was looking for a job, I could have chosen a company in Tokyo, but ultimately I chose to return to my hometown.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>タクシーで<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ってもよかったのだが、<ruby><rb>車</rb><rt>くるま</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>送</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>ってくれるというので、<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>せてもらった。／I could have gone by taxi, but since she offered me a ride, I took her up on it.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses that there are other alternatives or possibilities. With this meaning, the form ていい is seldom used. When used to refer to the past, the meaning is “there were other choices, but I did not take them.”</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x46162"><span class="number">3. </span>V-てもいい〈offer〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>わたしは、<ruby><rb>月曜日</rb><rt>げつ よう び</rt></ruby>はちょっと<ruby><rb>家</rb><rt>いえ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>られないんですが。／Monday is not a good day for me to leave the house.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>じゃあ、わたしがお<ruby><rb>宅</rb><rt>たく</rt></ruby>へ<ruby><rb>伺</rb><rt>うかが</rt></ruby>ってもいいですよ。／OK, then I could come to your house.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>それじゃ、そうしてください。／Then please do.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>がいないので、この<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>進</rb><rt>すす</rt></ruby>まないんだ。／He isn’t here, so no progress is being made on this task.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>ぼくが<ruby><rb>引</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>受</rb><rt>う</rt></ruby>けてもいいよ。／I could take it on.</div><div class="explanation">Used by the speaker to volunteer to do a certain action. Usually used to offer to do something that will benefit the other party.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x46224"><span class="number">4. </span>...てもいい〈concession〉</h2><h4 class="info">［N／Na　でもいい］</h4><h4 class="info">［A-くてもいい］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>印</rb><rt>いん</rt></ruby>かんがなければ、サインでもいいですよ。／If you don’t have your seal, then you can just sign it.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>給料</rb><rt>きゅう りょう</rt></ruby>がよければ、すこしぐらい<ruby><rb>危険</rb><rt>き けん</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>でもいい。／If the pay is good, then I don’t mind a job with a little risk.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>試合</rb><rt>し あい</rt></ruby>をするのに<ruby><rb>人数</rb><rt>にん ずう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>足</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>りないので、へたでもいいですから、<ruby><rb>誰</rb><rt>だれ</rt></ruby>か<ruby><rb>参加者</rb><rt>さん か しゃ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>探</rb><rt>さが</rt></ruby>してください。／There aren’t enough people for the match, so please look for someone else to participate, even if he’s not very good.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>多少</rb><rt>た しょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>不便</rb><rt>ふ べん</rt></ruby>でもいいから、<ruby><rb>自然</rb><rt>し ぜん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>環境</rb><rt>かん きょう</rt></ruby>のいいところに<ruby><rb>住</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>みたいと<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>う。／Even if it’s a little inconvenient, I think I want to live somewhere with a good natural environment.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>わたしでもよければ、<ruby><rb>手伝</rb><rt>て つだ</rt></ruby>います。／If I can be of any assistance, I’ll help.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>この<ruby><rb>部署</rb><rt>ぶ しょ</rt></ruby>には<ruby><rb>若</rb><rt>わか</rt></ruby>くてもいいから、しっかりした<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>れたい。／We don’t mind putting someone young in this post, provided that he or she is dependable.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span><ruby><rb>手紙</rb><rt>て がみ</rt></ruby>でも、<ruby><rb>電話</rb><rt>でん わ</rt></ruby>でもいいから、<ruby><rb>連絡</rb><rt>れん らく</rt></ruby>してみてください。／Either a letter or a telephone call will do—just try to contact him.</div><div class="explanation">This is an expression of concession, indicating that while a compromise may not be the best measure, it will still suffice. When several alternatives are listed, as in (7), it indicates the range of possible choices. Same as ...てもかまわない.</div></body></html>