<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>たとえば</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x31949">【たとえば】</h1><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>飲物</rb><rt>のみ もの</rt></ruby>でしたら、たとえばコーヒー、<ruby><rb>紅茶</rb><rt>こう ちゃ</rt></ruby>、ジュースなどを<ruby><rb>用意</rb><rt>よう い</rt></ruby>してあります。／For beverages, we have coffee, tea, soft drinks, and so on.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>日本語</rb><rt>に ほん ご</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>中</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>には、たとえばパン、ドア、ラジオなどたくさんの<ruby><rb>外来語</rb><rt>がい らい ご</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>っている。／In Japanese, there are many loan words, such as <i>pan</i> (bread), <i>doa</i> (door), <i>rajio </i>(radio), and so on.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>ゆっくり<ruby><rb>過</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>ごすとしたら、たとえば<ruby><rb>温泉</rb><rt>おん せん</rt></ruby>なんかどうですか。／If you want to spend some time relaxing, how about a hot spring or something?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span>このごろ<ruby><rb>運動</rb><rt>うん どう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>不足</rb><rt>ぶ そく</rt></ruby>なんだ。だけどスポーツするひまもないし<ruby><rb>金</rb><rt>かね</rt></ruby>もないし。／I haven’t been getting enough exercise lately. But I have no time to play sports, and no money either.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>わざわざ<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>かけなくても、たとえばバスをやめて、<ruby><rb>駅</rb><rt>えき</rt></ruby>まで<ruby><rb>歩</rb><rt>ある</rt></ruby>くとかいろいろあるでしょ。／Even if you don’t make a special effort to go somewhere, you can do all sorts of things, like stop using the bus and start walking to the train station.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>たとえばこの<ruby><rb>方程式</rb><rt>ほう てい しき</rt></ruby>のXを2とすると、Yは5になる。／Supposing that X in this equation is 2, then Y will be 5.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>たとえば<ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby>ここに1<ruby><rb>億円</rb><rt>おく えん</rt></ruby>あるとしたら、<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>いたい？／Say that there’s a hundred million yen here, right now. What would you want to use it for?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span>たとえば<ruby><rb>地球上</rb><rt>ち きゅう じょう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>み<ruby><rb>水</rb><rt>みず</rt></ruby>がだんだんなくなっていくとしますね。そういう<ruby><rb>場合</rb><rt>ば あい</rt></ruby>どうするか。<ruby><rb>海水</rb><rt>かい すい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>淡水化</rb><rt>たん すい か</rt></ruby>ということが<ruby><rb>当然</rb><rt>とう ぜん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えられるでしょう。／Suppose that all the drinking water were gradually disappearing from the earth. What would we do in that case? Desalinating sea water would naturally be one thing to consider.</div><div class="explanation">Used to give a concrete example of something introduced previously. When the example is hypothetical, as in (5) and (6), たとえば is followed by an expression such as とすると or としたら.</div></body></html>