<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ものでもない</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x99469">【ものでもない】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x99471"><span class="number">1. </span>V-たものでもない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>しろうとばかりの<ruby><rb>劇</rb><rt>げき</rt></ruby>だが、すぐれたところもあり、そう<ruby><rb>馬鹿</rb><rt>ば か</rt></ruby>にしたものでもない。／It was an all-amateur play but there were some excellent parts, so it isn’t to be belittled.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>みんな、<ruby><rb>主任</rb><rt>しゅ にん</rt></ruby>になったばかりの<ruby><rb>佐々木</rb><rt>さ さ き</rt></ruby>さんを<ruby><rb>若</rb><rt>わか</rt></ruby>すぎて<ruby><rb>頼</rb><rt>たよ</rt></ruby>りないと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>うが、<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>行動力</rb><rt>こう どう りょく</rt></ruby>はそう<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>くびったものでもない。／Everyone is saying that Sasaki-san, who has just taken charge, is too young and lacking in leadership qualities, but her dynamism is not to be underrated.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>とし</rt></ruby>をとったといっても、わたしのテニスの<ruby><rb>腕</rb><rt>うで</rt></ruby>はまだまだ<ruby><rb>捨</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>てたものではない。／You could say I’ve gotten old, but my tennis skills are not to be underestimated.</div><div class="explanation">With expressions containing the meaning “to slight,” expresses the meaning that something is “not that bad.”</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x99502"><span class="number">2. </span>V-ないものでもない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>この<ruby><rb>程度</rb><rt>てい ど</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>料理</rb><rt>りょう り</rt></ruby>なら、<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>にも<ruby><rb>作</rb><rt>つく</rt></ruby>れないものでもない。／If it’s only that level of cooking, (perhaps) even I could make it.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>道</rb><rt>みち</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>険</rb><rt>けわ</rt></ruby>しいが、<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>をつけて<ruby><rb>歩</rb><rt>ある</rt></ruby>いて<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>けば<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>けないものでもない。／The route is steep, but if we walk carefully, we should be able to get there.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>理由</rb><rt>り ゆう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>次第</rb><rt>し だい</rt></ruby>では、<ruby><rb>手</rb><rt>て</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>貸</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>さないものでもない。／Depending on your reasons, I might consider helping you.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>このルートで<ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>みなしに<ruby><rb>走</rb><rt>はし</rt></ruby>れば、<ruby><rb>間</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>合</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>わぬものでもない。／If we run this route without taking a break, we might possibly make it on time.</div><div class="explanation">Conservatively expresses that something “can” be done. A formal, somewhat old-fashioned phrase. Fundamentally the same as V-なくもない.</div></body></html>