<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>げんざい</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x16368">【げんざい】</h1><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>死</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>んでしまった<ruby><rb>現在</rb><rt>げん ざい</rt></ruby>、もうそんなことを<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>っても<ruby><rb>意味</rb><rt>い み</rt></ruby>がないよ。／Now that he’s dead, it’s meaningless to say such a thing. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>失敗</rb><rt>しっ ぱい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>原因</rb><rt>げん いん</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>明</rb><rt>あき</rt></ruby>らかになった<ruby><rb>現在</rb><rt>げん ざい</rt></ruby>、われわれは<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>をすべきか。／Now that the cause of the failure has been clarified, what should we do? </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>あの<ruby><rb>改革案</rb><rt>かい かく あん</rt></ruby>がいまだに<ruby><rb>大方</rb><rt>おお かた</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>賛同</rb><rt>さん どう</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>得</rb><rt>え</rt></ruby>られていない<ruby><rb>現在</rb><rt>げん ざい</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>新</rb><rt>あら</rt></ruby>たな<ruby><rb>方策</rb><rt>ほう さく</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えておくことも<ruby><rb>重要</rb><rt>じゅう よう</rt></ruby>なことではないか。／At this time, when that proposal for reform has not yet gained general support, isn’t it important to consider new measures? </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>地球</rb><rt>ち きゅう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>環境</rb><rt>かん きょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>保護</rb><rt>ほ ご</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>叫</rb><rt>さけ</rt></ruby>ばれている<ruby><rb>現在</rb><rt>げん ざい</rt></ruby>、クリーンエネルギーの<ruby><rb>夢</rb><rt>ゆめ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>広</rb><rt>ひろ</rt></ruby>げるその<ruby><rb>計画</rb><rt>けい かく</rt></ruby>への<ruby><rb>期待</rb><rt>き たい</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>大</rb><rt>おお</rt></ruby>きい。／Now, when people are clamoring for protection of the global environment, expectations regarding that plan to expand the dream of clean energy are great. </div><div class="explanation">Originally a noun, as in 過去と現在 (past and present) and 現在の気温は 29 度だ (the current temperature is 29 degrees). When attached to the end of a clause, it becomes an expression to present the current situation and then state an assertion on the part of the speaker. A formal expression that tends to be used in written language. </div></body></html>