<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>さいちゅう</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x18807">【さいちゅう】</h1><h4 class="info">［Nのさいちゅう］</h4><h4 class="info">［V-ているさいちゅう］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>大事</rb><rt>だい じ</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>電話</rb><rt>でん わ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>最中</rb><rt>さい ちゅう</rt></ruby>に、<ruby><rb>急</rb><rt>きゅう</rt></ruby>におなかが<ruby><rb>痛</rb><rt>いた</rt></ruby>くなってきた。／In the middle of an important telephone call, I suddenly started to get a stomachache.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>きのうの<ruby><rb>断水</rb><rt>だん すい</rt></ruby>のとき<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>はちょうどシャワーの<ruby><rb>最中</rb><rt>さい ちゅう</rt></ruby>でした。／When the water got turned off yesterday, I was right in the middle of taking a shower. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>授業</rb><rt>じゅ ぎょう</rt></ruby>をしている<ruby><rb>最中</rb><rt>さい ちゅう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>非常</rb><rt>ひ じょう</rt></ruby>ベルが<ruby><rb>鳴</rb><rt>な</rt></ruby>りだした。／The alarm bell started to ring during the middle of class. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>その<ruby><rb>件</rb><rt>けん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>たちの<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>合</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>っている<ruby><rb>最中</rb><rt>さい ちゅう</rt></ruby>だから、<ruby><rb>最終</rb><rt>さい しゅう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>結論</rb><rt>けつ ろん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>だ</rt></ruby>すのはもうちょっと<ruby><rb>待</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>ってくれないか。／We are still discussing the matter among ourselves, so could you wait a little while longer before you make a final decision? </div><div class="explanation">Means that a certain action or phenomenon is in progress at just that time. Often used in cases when something suddenly happens while the action etc. is in progress, as in (1)-(3). </div></body></html>