<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>また</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x89378">【また】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x89380"><span class="number">1. </span>また</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x89386"><span class="number">a. </span>また〈repetition〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>また、<ruby><rb>飛行機</rb><rt>ひ こう き</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>落</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>ちたらしい。／It seems that another plane has crashed.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>同</rb><rt>おな</rt></ruby>じ<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>をまた<ruby><rb>間違</rb><rt>ま ちが</rt></ruby>えた。／I got the same question wrong again.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>すみません。<ruby><rb>来週</rb><rt>らい しゅう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>金曜日</rb><rt>きん よう び</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>ませていただきたいのですが。／Excuse me. If possible I’d take like to take a day off next Friday.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>またですか。<ruby><rb>先週</rb><rt>せん しゅう</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>んだでしょう。／Again? You took it off last week, too, didn’t you?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span>さようなら、また<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>てくださいね。／Goodbye. Please come again, OK?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>有難</rb><rt>あり がと</rt></ruby>うございます。また、おじゃまします。／Thank you very much. I would love to come again.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>《<ruby><rb>授業</rb><rt>じゅ ぎょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>終</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>わりに》では、また<ruby><rb>来週</rb><rt>らい しゅう</rt></ruby>。／《at the end of a class》Well, see you again next week.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><span class="number">A:</span>じゃ、また。／Okay, see you again.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>じゃあね。／See you!</div><div class="explanation">Demonstrates the repeated occurrence of the same thing. As in (4)-(6), it is also used as a parting salutation.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x89474"><span class="number">b. </span>また〈adjunction〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>教科書</rb><rt>きょう か しょ</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>大学</rb><rt>だい がく</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>生協</rb><rt>せいきょう</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>購入</rb><rt>こう にゅう</rt></ruby>できる。また、<ruby><rb>大</rb><rt>おお</rt></ruby>きな<ruby><rb>書店</rb><rt>しょ てん</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>販売</rb><rt>はん ばい</rt></ruby>している。／You can purchase the textbook at the university cooperative. It is also sold at large bookstores.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>10 <ruby><rb>月</rb><rt>がつ</rt></ruby>から<ruby><rb>大手</rb><rt>おお て</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>私鉄</rb><rt>し てつ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>運賃</rb><rt>うん ちん</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>平均</rb><rt>へい きん</rt></ruby> 20 ％<ruby><rb>値上</rb><rt>ね あ</rt></ruby>げされる。また、<ruby><rb>地下鉄</rb><rt>ち か てつ</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>市</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>バスも<ruby><rb>来年</rb><rt>らい ねん</rt></ruby>4<ruby><rb>月</rb><rt>がつ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>値上</rb><rt>ね あ</rt></ruby>げを<ruby><rb>予定</rb><rt>よ てい</rt></ruby>している。／Beginning in October, the major private railway companies will raise their fares by an average of 20%. Moreover, there are also plans to raise subway and city bus fares starting in April of next year.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>《テレビのニュースで》<ruby><rb>現在</rb><rt>げん ざい</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>新幹線</rb><rt>しん かん せん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>京都</rb><rt>きょう と</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>神戸</rb><rt>こう べ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>間</rb><rt>かん</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>不通</rb><rt>ふ つう</rt></ruby>になっております。また、<ruby><rb>在来線</rb><rt>ざい らい せん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>大阪</rb><rt>おお さか</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>神戸</rb><rt>こう べ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>間</rb><rt>かん</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>不通</rb><rt>ふ つう</rt></ruby>となっております。／《television news》The <i>s</i><i>hinkansen</i> (bullet train) service between Kyoto and Kobe is currently suspended. Additionally, service on all other railway lines between Osaka and Kobe has also been suspended.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>《テレビのニュースで》<ruby><rb>天皇</rb><rt>てん のう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>皇后</rb><rt>こうごう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>両陛下</rb><rt>りょう へい か</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>韓国</rb><rt>かんこく</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>御訪問</rb><rt>ご ほう もん</rt></ruby>は、10 <ruby><rb>月</rb><rt>がつ</rt></ruby>と<ruby><rb>決</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>まりました。また、<ruby><rb>首席</rb><rt>しゅせき</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>随行員</rb><rt>ずい こう いん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>渡辺</rb><rt>わたなべ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>外相</rb><rt>がい しょう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>務</rb><rt>つと</rt></ruby>めます。／《television news》The visit of Their Majesties, the Emperor and Empress, to Korea has been arranged for October. Furthermore, Foreign Minister Watanabe will serve as their chief attendant.</div><div class="explanation">Used to give further explanation or to add new information in connection to a matter already related. </div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x89519"><span class="number">c. </span>また〈list〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>良</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>父</rb><rt>ちち</rt></ruby>であり、また<ruby><rb>良</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>夫</rb><rt>おっと</rt></ruby>でもある。／He is a good father and also a good husband.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>この<ruby><rb>本</rb><rt>ほん</rt></ruby>はおもしろく、またためになる。／This book is interesting and also educational.  </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>喫煙</rb><rt>きつ えん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>健康</rb><rt>けん こう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>いし、また、<ruby><rb>周囲</rb><rt>しゅう い</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>迷惑</rb><rt>めい わく</rt></ruby>にもなる。／Smoking is bad for your health and also a nuisance to those around you.</div><div class="explanation">Means “in addition...” or “moreover....” Used to list similar matters or information. Often used in the form また...も.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x89553"><span class="number">d. </span>また〈choice〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>参加</rb><rt>さん か</rt></ruby>してもよい。また、<ruby><rb>参加</rb><rt>さん か</rt></ruby>しなくてもよい。／It’s okay if you participate. It’s also okay if you don’t.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>黒</rb><rt>くろ</rt></ruby>か<ruby><rb>青</rb><rt>あお</rt></ruby>のインクで<ruby><rb>書</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>くこと。また、パソコンの<ruby><rb>使用</rb><rt>し よう</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>可</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>。／Write in black or blue ink. Alternatively, it is also acceptable to use a personal computer.</div><div class="explanation">Means “one of two (options).” Often used in the form また...も.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x89578"><span class="number">2. </span>...もまた</h2><h4 class="info">［Nもまた］</h4><h4 class="info">［Na なのもまた］</h4><h4 class="info">［A／V　のもまた］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>山</rb><rt>やま</rt></ruby>でのキャンプ<ruby><rb>生活</rb><rt>せい かつ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>電気</rb><rt>でん き</rt></ruby>もガスもないが、<ruby><rb>不便</rb><rt>ふ べん</rt></ruby>なのもまた<ruby><rb>楽</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>しい。／When camping in the mountains there is no electricity or gas, but there’s also something fun about the inconvenience.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>暑</rb><rt>あつ</rt></ruby>いのも<ruby><rb>困</rb><rt>こま</rt></ruby>るが<ruby><rb>寒</rb><rt>さむ</rt></ruby>いのもまたたいへんだ。／The heat is troublesome but the cold is just as much a problem.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>晴</rb><rt>は</rt></ruby>れた<ruby><rb>日</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>散歩</rb><rt>さん ぽ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>楽</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>しい。しかし、<ruby><rb>雨</rb><rt>あめ</rt></ruby>にぬれながら<ruby><rb>歩</rb><rt>ある</rt></ruby>くのもまた<ruby><rb>風情</rb><rt>ふ ぜい</rt></ruby>があっていいものだ。／A walk on a clear day is enjoyable. However, walking while getting wet in the rain also has its attractions.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>天才</rb><rt>てん さい</rt></ruby>といえども、<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>もまた<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>子</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>だ。うれしいときもあれば<ruby><rb>悲</rb><rt>かな</rt></ruby>しいときもある。／A genius though he is, he is also human. He has both happy times and sad times.</div><div class="explanation">Means “in the same way,” or “just as.” As in (1) - (3), it introduces a thing which is similar to that previously related. In the case of (4) it means “even a genius like him is the same as normal people.”</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x89621"><span class="number">3. </span>...また</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>いったいまたどうしてそんなことを。／Why (on earth) would you do that kind of thing?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>どうしてまた、こんなことになったのだろうか。／Why (on earth) has this kind of thing happened?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>しかしよくまた、こんなことができたものだ。／It is amazing how anyone could have done such a thing!</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>これはまたきれいな<ruby><rb>絵</rb><rt>え</rt></ruby>ですね。／This is such a beautiful picture, isn’t it?</div><div class="explanation">When used together with phrases such as いったい, どうして, and これは, shows the speaker’s feeling of surprise or wonder.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x89658"><span class="number">4. </span>またのN</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>またのお<ruby><rb>越</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>しをお<ruby><rb>待</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>ちしております。／We look forward to serving you again.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>きょうは<ruby><rb>忙</rb><rt>いそが</rt></ruby>しいので、この<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>はまたの<ruby><rb>機会</rb><rt>き かい</rt></ruby>にお<ruby><rb>願</rb><rt>ねが</rt></ruby>いします。／Since today is very busy, I would like to discuss this matter at some other opportunity.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>医者</rb><rt>い しゃ</rt></ruby>だが、またの<ruby><rb>名</rb><rt>な</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>北山</rb><rt>きたやま</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>淳</rb><rt>じゅん</rt></ruby>といって<ruby><rb>有名</rb><rt>ゆう めい</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>小説家</rb><rt>しょう せつ か</rt></ruby>でもある。／He is a doctor but he is also a famous novelist by the name of Kitayama Jun.</div><div class="explanation">Means “the next” or “another” (occasion). Examples (1) and (2) are common set phrases limited to use with nouns such as “another opportunity/chance/time/day/name.” またの名を...という in (3) means “(his) other name is.../also known as....”</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x89689"><span class="number">5. </span>NまたN</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>一行</rb><rt>いっ　こう</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>山</rb><rt>やま</rt></ruby>また<ruby><rb>山</rb><rt>やま</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>奥地</rb><rt>おく ち</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>進</rb><rt>すす</rt></ruby>んで<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>った。／The party proceeded into the mountainous interior.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>残業</rb><rt>ざん ぎょう</rt></ruby>また<ruby><rb>残業</rb><rt>ざん ぎょう</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>む<ruby><rb>暇</rb><rt>ひま</rt></ruby>もない。／I have no time to rest because I am constantly working overtime.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>また<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>歩</rb><rt>ある</rt></ruby>くこともできない。／With people on top of people, it’s impossible to walk.</div><div class="explanation">By repeating the same noun, demonstrates a situation in which the same things form a series/chain or a situation in which the same thing continues.</div></body></html>