<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>それにしても</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x27802">【それにしても】</h1><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>予選</rb><rt>よ せん</rt></ruby>ではあんなに<ruby><rb>強</rb><rt>つよ</rt></ruby>かったのにどうして<ruby><rb>決勝</rb><rt>けっ しょう</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>負</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>けたんでしょうね。／He was so good in the preliminaries—I wonder why he lost in the final.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>プレッシャーでしょう。／Probably due to pressure.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>それにしてもひどい<ruby><rb>負</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>け<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>かた</rt></ruby>ですね。／Even so, he really lost badly.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>坂本</rb><rt>さか もと</rt></ruby>さん、あの<ruby><rb>高校</rb><rt>こう こう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>受</rb><rt>う</rt></ruby>かったんだってね。／I hear Sakamoto-san passed the exam to get into that high school.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>必死</rb><rt>ひっ し</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>勉強</rb><rt>べん きょう</rt></ruby>してたらしいよ。／Apparently she studied really hard for it.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>それにしてもすごいね。／Even so, that’s really something!</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>またガソリン<ruby><rb>代</rb><rt>だい</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>値上</rb><rt>ね あ</rt></ruby>がりしたよ。／The cost of gasoline has gone up again.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>それにしても<ruby><rb>政治家</rb><rt>せい じ か</rt></ruby>はなにをしてるんだろう。われわれがこんなに<ruby><rb>苦</rb><rt>くる</rt></ruby>しんでいるのに。／And what are the politicians doing about it? While we’re struggling so hard.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>太郎</rb><rt>た ろう</rt></ruby>、また<ruby><rb>背</rb><rt>せ</rt></ruby>がのびたようよ。／Taro seems to have grown more.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>それにしても、あいつはよく<ruby><rb>寝</rb><rt>ね</rt></ruby>るなあ。／Even so (even though children who sleep well grow well), he really does sleep a lot, doesn’t he.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>《A、Bが<ruby><rb>竹下</rb><rt>たけ した</rt></ruby>さんを<ruby><rb>待</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>っている》／《A and B are waiting for Takeshita-san》</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>よく<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>りますね。／It’s really raining hard, isn’t it?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>ええ、それにしても<ruby><rb>竹下</rb><rt>たけ した</rt></ruby>さん<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おそ</rt></ruby>いですね。／Yes, but even so, Takeshita-san is quite late, isn’t he?</div><div class="explanation">Means “even taking that (fact) into account.” In (1)-(3), it is used to say something that contrasts with a previous statement, while acknowledging that the previous statement is by and large true. In (4) and (5), it is used to introduce a new topic, after expressing provisional agreement with what has been said up to that point. In the latter case, it often expresses the feelings of the speaker at that time.</div></body></html>