<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>それとも</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x27433">【それとも】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x27435"><span class="number">1. </span>NそれともN</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>コーヒー？　それとも<ruby><rb>紅茶</rb><rt>こう ちゃ</rt></ruby>？／Coffee? Or tea?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>どちらでもけっこうです。／Either one is fine.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あしたのパーティーには、<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>着</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>て<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>くつもり？　<ruby><rb>着物</rb><rt>き もの</rt></ruby>、それともドレス？／What are you going to wear to the party tomorrow? A <i>kimono</i>, or a dress?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>まだ、<ruby><rb>決</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>めてないのよ。／I haven’t decided yet.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>進学</rb><rt>しん がく</rt></ruby>か、それとも<ruby><rb>就職</rb><rt>しゅう しょく</rt></ruby>かとずいぶん<ruby><rb>悩</rb><rt>なや</rt></ruby>んだ。／Going to graduate school, or finding a job—I worried a lot about which to do.</div><div class="explanation">Takes the pattern XそれともY or XかそれともYか and means “either X or Y.” Used to indicate two possibilities and ask the listener which is better, as in (1), or to ask about the listener’s intention, as in (2). Cannot be used when giving instructions, as seen in the examples below.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（×）</span>黒それとも青のインクで書いてください。／Please use a pen with black, or blue ink.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（○）</span>黒か青のインクで書いてください。／Please use a pen with black or blue ink.</div><div class="explanation">Also used when there are two possibilities and the speaker is unsure or doesn’t know which one to choose, as in (3). In this case, それとも can be replaced by あるいは (or).</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x27520"><span class="number">2. </span>...それとも</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>雨</rb><rt>あめ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>ってきましたが、どうしますか。<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>きますか。それとも<ruby><rb>延期</rb><rt>えん き</rt></ruby>しますか。／It’s started raining, so what shall we do? Shall we go? Or shall we postpone it?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>洋室</rb><rt>よう しつ</rt></ruby>がよろしいですか、それとも<ruby><rb>和室</rb><rt>わ しつ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>がよろしいですか。／Would you prefer a Western-style room, or would a Japanese-style room be better?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>散歩</rb><rt>さん ぽ</rt></ruby>にでも<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>く？　それとも、<ruby><rb>映画</rb><rt>えい が</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>ようか。／Do you want to take a walk? Or would you like to see a film?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>そうね、<ruby><rb>久</rb><rt>ひさ</rt></ruby>しぶりに<ruby><rb>映画</rb><rt>えい が</rt></ruby>もいいな。／Hmm... a movie might be nice, since we haven’t seen one in a while.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>就職</rb><rt>しゅう しょく</rt></ruby>しようか、それとも<ruby><rb>進学</rb><rt>しん がく</rt></ruby>しようかと<ruby><rb>迷</rb><rt>まよ</rt></ruby>っている。／I can’t decide whether to find a job or to go on to university.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>初</rb><rt>はじ</rt></ruby>めから<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>く</rt></ruby>るつもりがなかったのか、それとも、<ruby><rb>急</rb><rt>きゅう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>変</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>わったのか、<ruby><rb>約束</rb><rt>やく そく</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>過</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>ぎても<ruby><rb>現</rb><rt>あらわ</rt></ruby>れなかった。／I don’t know if he didn’t intend to come in the first place, or if he all of a sudden changed his mind, but he never showed up, even after the appointed time.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>この<ruby><rb>手紙</rb><rt>て がみ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>読</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>んで、<ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>喜</rb><rt>よろこ</rt></ruby>んでくれるだろうか。それとも、<ruby><rb>軽蔑</rb><rt>けい べつ</rt></ruby>するだろうか。／I wonder if she’ll be happy when she reads this letter. Or if she’ll despise me.</div><div class="explanation">Takes the pattern XそれともY or XかそれともYか and means “either X or Y.”  (1)-(3) are examples of the speaker indicating two possibilities and asking the listener which is better. (4)-(6) are examples in which there are two possibilities, and the speaker is either unsure which is true or doesn’t know which to choose. In (4)-(6), それとも can be replaced by あるいは (or).</div></body></html>