<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ときには</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x53930">【ときには】</h1><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>生真面目</rb><rt>き ま じ め</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>だが、<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>とき</rt></ruby>には<ruby><rb>冗談</rb><rt>じょう だん</rt></ruby>をいうこともある。／Even he, dead serious as he is, can sometimes crack a joke. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>だって<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>とき</rt></ruby>には<ruby><rb>人恋</rb><rt>ひと こい</rt></ruby>しくなることもある。／You know, even I get lonely once in a while. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>いつも<ruby><rb>明</rb><rt>あか</rt></ruby>るい<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>だが、<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>とき</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>機嫌</rb><rt>き げん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>いこともある。／She’s always cheerful, yet there are times when she’s in a bad mood.  </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>専門家</rb><rt>せん もん か</rt></ruby>でも、<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>とき</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>失敗</rb><rt>しっ ぱい</rt></ruby>する<ruby><rb>場合</rb><rt>ば あい</rt></ruby>もある。／Even experts can occasionally make mistakes. </div><div class="explanation">Means “not always, but at times....” The particle は can be omitted, as in (3) and (4).  </div></body></html>