<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>さあ</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x18661">【さあ】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x18663"><span class="number">1. </span>さあ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>さあ、いこう。／All right, let’s go. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>さあ、いそいで、いそいで。／Come on, hurry up, hurry up. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>さあ、がんばるぞ。／OK, I’ll do my best. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>さあ、<ruby><rb>春</rb><rt>はる</rt></ruby>だ。／Now, it is spring. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>さあ、ごはんができたぞ。／Now dinner is ready.</div><div class="explanation">Used to urge or invite the listener to do something. (3) is an example of someone encouraging <span class="noSeparate">him/her</span>self. In cases like (4) and (5), the functions seen in (1), (2), and (3), such as urging, inviting, or encouraging someone to do something, are concealed. These examples can be paraphrased as さあ、春だ。がんばるぞ (Now, it is spring. I will work hard!) and さあ、ごはんができたぞ。食べよう／食べなさい (Now, dinner is ready. Let’s eat!/Start eating!). With the exception of the usage shown in (3), さあ can also be used by itself when the meaning is clear from the situation. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x18706"><span class="number">2. </span>さあ</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>、だれ？／Who is that person? </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>さあ（、<ruby><rb>知</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>りません）。／Well... (I don’t know). </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>これから、どうする？／What are you going to do from now on? </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>さあ、どうしようかな。／Well, I’m not sure yet. </div><div class="explanation">Used in response to a question or a situation when the speaker does not know the answer, as in (1), or when the speaker has trouble making a judgment, as in (2). さあ is used by itself, particularly with the meaning shown in (1), only when the conversation is between people in a close relationship.</div></body></html>