<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ほとんど</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x88110">【ほとんど】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x88112"><span class="number">1. </span>ほとんど</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>この<ruby><rb>小説</rb><rt>しょう せつ</rt></ruby>はほとんど<ruby><rb>読</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>んでしまった。／I have almost finished reading this novel.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>京都</rb><rt>きょう と</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>有名</rb><rt>ゆう めい</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>寺</rb><rt>てら</rt></ruby>にはほとんどいったことがある。／I have visited almost all the famous temples in Kyoto.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>新</rb><rt>あたら</rt></ruby>しいビルは、ほとんど<ruby><rb>完成</rb><rt>かん せい</rt></ruby>している。／The new building is almost completed.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>ほどの<ruby><rb>成績</rb><rt>せい せき</rt></ruby>なら、<ruby><rb>合格</rb><rt>ごう かく</rt></ruby>はほとんど<ruby><rb>確実</rb><rt>かく じつ</rt></ruby>だ。／Judging by his academic record, it is almost certain that he will pass the examination.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>地域</rb><rt>ち いき</rt></ruby>のスポーツクラブに<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ってみたら、ほとんどが<ruby><rb>年輩</rb><rt>ねん ぱい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>だったのには<ruby><rb>驚</rb><rt>おどろ</rt></ruby>いた。／I was surprised to find that there were mainly elderly people at the local sports club.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>このクラスのほとんどが、アジアからの<ruby><rb>留学生</rb><rt>りゅう がく せい</rt></ruby>だ。／Most students in this class are from Asian countries.</div><div class="explanation">Means “almost” or “the majority.” Being used to modify the predicate of the sentence as in the cases of examples (1) - (3), it can mean “not entirely, but almost all” or “almost 100%” as in the case of (4). It can also be used in the form of （Nの）ほとんどが indicating “most of N” as in the cases of (5) and (6).</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x88161"><span class="number">2. </span>ほとんど...ない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>給料日</rb><rt>きゅう りょう び</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>前</rb><rt>まえ</rt></ruby>でほとんど<ruby><rb>金</rb><rt>かね</rt></ruby>がない。／Since it is a few days before I get paid, I have very little money at the moment.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>酒</rb><rt>さけ</rt></ruby>はほとんど<ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>まない。／He hardly drinks any alcohol.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>英語</rb><rt>えい ご</rt></ruby>はほとんど<ruby><rb>読</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>めない。／I can hardly read any English.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>この<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>三日</rb><rt>みっか</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>仕上</rb><rt>し あ</rt></ruby>げるのは、ほとんど<ruby><rb>不可能</rb><rt>ふ か のう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>近</rb><rt>ちか</rt></ruby>い。／It would be almost impossible to complete this task within three days.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>このごろは<ruby><rb>忙</rb><rt>いそが</rt></ruby>しくて、あれほど<ruby><rb>好</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>きだったテニスにも、ほとんど<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>っていない。／I have been so busy lately that I’ve hardly had time to play tennis, which I used to enjoy so much.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby>でこそ<ruby><rb>有名</rb><rt>ゆう めい</rt></ruby>だが、10 <ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>ねん</rt></ruby>ほど<ruby><rb>前</rb><rt>まえ</rt></ruby>には、<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>名前</rb><rt>な まえ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>知</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>っている<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>は、ほとんどいなかった。／He is now very famous, but ten or so years ago, there was hardly anyone who knew his name.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span>ほとんど<ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>まず<ruby><rb>食</rb><rt>く</rt></ruby>わずで、<ruby><rb>一日中</rb><rt>いち にち じゅう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>働</rb><rt>はたら</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>続</rb><rt>つづ</rt></ruby>けた。／I continued to work all day, almost without eating or drinking.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（8）</span><ruby><rb>遭難</rb><rt>そう なん</rt></ruby>して<ruby><rb>三日</rb><rt>みっか</rt></ruby>めには、<ruby><rb>食糧</rb><rt>しょく りょう</rt></ruby>もほとんどなくなった。／By the third day after we’d lost our way, the food was almost gone.</div><div class="explanation">Means that the amount is very little, or the frequency is low.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x88222"><span class="number">3. </span>ほとんど...た</h2><h4 class="info">［ほとんどV-るところだった］</h4><h4 class="info">［ほとんどR-かけた］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>頃</rb><rt>ころ</rt></ruby>、チフスでほとんど<ruby><rb>死</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>にかけたことがある。／I nearly died from typhoid fever when I was a child.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>横道</rb><rt>よこ みち</rt></ruby>から<ruby><rb>飛</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>び<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>だ</rt></ruby>してきた<ruby><rb>自転車</rb><rt>じ てん しゃ</rt></ruby>とほとんどぶつかるところだった。／I nearly collided with a bicycle that came speeding out of a side road.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>事業</rb><rt>じ ぎょう</rt></ruby>は、ほとんどうまくいきかけたのだが、<ruby><rb>運悪</rb><rt>うん わる</rt></ruby>く<ruby><rb>得意先</rb><rt>とく い さき</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>倒産</rb><rt>とう さん</rt></ruby>してしまい、それからは<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>いこと<ruby><rb>続</rb><rt>つづ</rt></ruby>きだった。／We nearly made a success of the business, but unfortunately one of the customers went bankrupt, and after that there was nothing but trouble.</div><div class="explanation">Means that something looked very likely to happen but in reality it did not. Often used in the sense of a narrow escape, as in the cases of examples (1) and (2).</div></body></html>