<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>どうやら</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x52017">【どうやら】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x52019"><span class="number">1. </span>どうやら...そうだ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>この<ruby><rb>分</rb><rt>ぶん</rt></ruby>でいくと、どうやら<ruby><rb>桜</rb><rt>さくら</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>開花</rb><rt>かい か</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>早</rb><rt>はや</rt></ruby>まりそうだ。／If it (the weather) continues like this, the cherry blossoms may well bloom early.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>むこうから<ruby><rb>歩</rb><rt>ある</rt></ruby>いて<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>く</rt></ruby>るのはどうやら<ruby><rb>田中</rb><rt>た なか</rt></ruby>さんのようだ。／That looks like Tanaka-san walking toward us from over there.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>部屋</rb><rt>へ や</rt></ruby>から<ruby><rb>次々</rb><rt>つぎ つぎ</rt></ruby>と<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>て<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>く</rt></ruby>るところをみると、どうやら<ruby><rb>会議</rb><rt>かい ぎ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>終</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>わったらしい。／Seeing people come out of the room one after the other, it looks like the meeting is over.</div><div class="explanation">Followed by expressions of conjecture such as そうだ, ようだ, or らしい. Indicates uncertainty on the part of the speaker, in the sense that although <span class="noSeparate">s/he</span> isn’t absolutely sure, <span class="noSeparate">s/he</span> thinks that such an inference is possible.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x52050"><span class="number">2. </span>どうやら（こうやら）</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>急</rb><rt>いそ</rt></ruby>いだのでどうやら<ruby><rb>間</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>合</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>った。／We hurried, so somehow or other, we made it on time.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>どうやら<ruby><rb>論文</rb><rt>ろん ぶん</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>完成</rb><rt>かん せい</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>近</rb><rt>ちか</rt></ruby>づいた。／I’ve somehow managed to come close to finishing my thesis.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>どうやらこうやら<ruby><rb>卒業</rb><rt>そつ ぎょう</rt></ruby>することができました。／By hook or by crook, I was able to graduate. </div><div class="explanation">Expresses that, although the outcome is in some way insufficient, a situation or stage of completion that was set as a goal has finally been achieved, as a result of one’s efforts.</div></body></html>