<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>てくれ</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x41325">【てくれ】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x41327"><span class="number">1. </span>V-てくれ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>もう<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>ってくれ。／Just leave, will you?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>いいかげんにしてくれ。／Quit that right now!</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>人前</rb><rt>ひと まえ</rt></ruby>でそんなこと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>うのはやめてくれよ。／Stop saying such things in front of other people.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>こんなものは、どこかに<ruby><rb>捨</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>ててきてくれ。／Just throw these things away somewhere.</div><div class="explanation">This is a strong expression which is used to order someone to do an action for the speaker or someone associated with the speaker. Used when speaking to someone equal or junior. Women seldom use this expression. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x41364"><span class="number">2. </span>V-ないでくれ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>冗談</rb><rt>じょう だん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>わないでくれよ。／Are you kidding me?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>ここではたばこを<ruby><rb>吸</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>わないでください。／Please don’t smoke here.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>ないで！／Don’t look!</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>このことは<ruby><rb>絶対</rb><rt>ぜっ たい</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>外</rb><rt>そと</rt></ruby>にはもらさないでいただけませんか。／Can I ask that you never let any of this matter out to anyone else?</div><div class="explanation">Used in patterns such as V-ないでくれ, V-ないでもらえないか, and V-ないでください to request someone not to do the action indicated by V. Constructed by changing the V-て part of the V-てくれ form to a negative <i>te</i>-form.</div><div class="explanation">Used in informal spoken language. Sometimes the latter half of the sentence is omitted, as in example (3). V-ないでください（ませんか）／いただけませんか／いただけないでしょうか are the polite forms of the same expression. V-ないでほしい is also used. </div></body></html>