<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>なるほど</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x67451">【なるほど】</h1><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>いい<ruby><rb>店</rb><rt>みせ</rt></ruby>だとは<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>いていたが、なるほどサービスもいいし<ruby><rb>料理</rb><rt>りょう り</rt></ruby>もうまい。／I’ve heard that this is a good restaurant. Indeed, the service is excellent and the food is really good.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>あなたの<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>うことはなるほどもっともだが、<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>立場</rb><rt>たち ば</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えてほしい。／It is true that what you are saying is reasonable, but I would like you to consider my position. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>なるほど、<ruby><rb>富士山</rb><rt>ふ じ さん</rt></ruby>というのは<ruby><rb>美</rb><rt>うつく</rt></ruby>しい<ruby><rb>山</rb><rt>やま</rt></ruby>だ。／Indeed, <i>Fuji-san</i> (Mount Fuji) is a beautiful mountain.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>なるほど、<ruby><rb>噂</rb><rt>うわさ</rt></ruby>には<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>いていましたが、<ruby><rb>実際</rb><rt>じっ さい</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>ってみると<ruby><rb>本当</rb><rt>ほん  とう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>便利</rb><rt>べん り</rt></ruby>なものなのですね。／I had heard talk about it and—as they said—it really was convenient when I used it.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span>きのうは<ruby><rb>久</rb><rt>ひさ</rt></ruby>しぶりに<ruby><rb>大学</rb><rt>だい がく</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>時代</rb><rt>じ だい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>友達</rb><rt>とも だち</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>会</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>ってきたよ。／Yesterday I saw my friends from my university days after a long while.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>なるほど。だからあんなに<ruby><rb>嬉</rb><rt>うれ</rt></ruby>しそうにしていたんですね。／Oh, so that’s why you looked so happy.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><span class="number">A:</span>このコピー<ruby><rb>機</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>濃度</rb><rt>のう ど</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>調整</rb><rt>ちょう せい</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>自動</rb><rt>じ どう</rt></ruby>でできるようになっております。／This copier is able to control the boldness of fonts automatically.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>なるほど。／I see.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>それから、<ruby><rb>用紙</rb><rt>よう し</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>選択</rb><rt>せん たく</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>自動</rb><rt>じ どう</rt></ruby>になっております。／Furthermore, it can also automatically select the paper size. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>なるほど。／I got it.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses the speaker’s understanding with satisfaction that the speaker agrees with knowledge <span class="noSeparate">s/he</span> obtained from others or accepts what the listener is contending. Also used when the speaker reconfirms <span class="noSeparate">his/her</span> own information, or when the speaker is convinced by an answer to <span class="noSeparate">his/her</span> question. なるほど sounds casual and less formal than 納得, as in (6). There is a use in which the speaker shows the listener that <span class="noSeparate">s/he</span> agrees with the listener or <span class="noSeparate">s/he</span> is making brief responses while listening to the listener. However, なるほど is not used towards superiors because this use may sound arrogant.</div></body></html>