<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ひとつ</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x83639">【ひとつ】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x83641"><span class="number">1. </span>ひとつ...ない</h2><div class="explanation">Emphasizes the absence of something.  Similar expressions such as ...も...ない, ...として...ない are also used. To express frequency, 一度も／一回も／一ぺんも ...ない are used.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x83654"><span class="number">a. </span>Nひとつ...ない</h3><h4 class="info">［Nひとつない］</h4><h4 class="info">［NひとつV-ない］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>雲</rb><rt>くも</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>一</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>つない<ruby><rb>青空</rb><rt>あお ぞら</rt></ruby>。／Cloudless blue sky.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>しみひとつない<ruby><rb>美</rb><rt>うつく</rt></ruby>しい<ruby><rb>肌</rb><rt>はだ</rt></ruby>。／Beautiful skin without a single blemish.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>街</rb><rt>まち</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>清潔</rb><rt>せい けつ</rt></ruby>で、ちりひとつ<ruby><rb>落</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>ちていない。／The town is so clean that not a piece of rubbish is to be found.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>夜</rb><rt>よる</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>公園</rb><rt>こう えん</rt></ruby>には、<ruby><rb>猫</rb><rt>ねこ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>仔</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>一匹</rb><rt>いっぴき</rt></ruby>いなかった。／There wasn’t a single cat in the park at night.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>あたりはしーんとして、<ruby><rb>物音</rb><rt>もの おと</rt></ruby>ひとつしない。／The area was perfectly still and not a sound was heard.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>意見</rb><rt>い けん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>誰</rb><rt>だれ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>一人</rb><rt>ひとり</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>反対</rb><rt>はん たい</rt></ruby>しなかった。／Not one person objected to his opinion.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span><ruby><rb>昨日</rb><rt>きのう</rt></ruby>から<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>ひとつ<ruby><rb>食</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>べていない。／I haven’t eaten a thing since yesterday.</div><div class="explanation">Means “there is absolutely no ....” As in the case of (1) and (2), by stating that there are no clouds/blemishes, the blueness of the sky and the beauty of the skin are emphasized. In the cases of (3)-(5), when using a verb, the expression becomes a negative of the verb, “not at all V.”  As a counter, apart from ひとつ, “one + counter” (such as 一匹、一人、一枚) is often used.  Also, as in the cases of (6) and (7), 誰ひとり...ない and 何ひとつ...ない emphasize the meaning of “nobody” and “nothing.”</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x83713"><span class="number">b. </span>...ひとつも...ない</h3><h4 class="info">［ひとつもない］</h4><h4 class="info">［ひとつも　A-くない］</h4><h4 class="info">［ひとつも　V-ない］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>知</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>った<ruby><rb>顔</rb><rt>かお</rt></ruby>はひとつもない。／There is no one I recognize.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>この<ruby><rb>料理</rb><rt>りょう り</rt></ruby>はひとつもうまくない。／There’s nothing tasty with this food.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>作文</rb><rt>さく ぶん</rt></ruby>には、まちがいはひとつもなかった。／His essay didn’t have a single mistake.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>このごろのファッションなんか、ひとつもいいと<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>わない。／I don’t think fashions these days have anything good about them.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>あいつは、<ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>きみ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>忠告</rb><rt>ちゅう こく</rt></ruby>なんかひとつも<ruby><rb>覚</rb><rt>おぼ</rt></ruby>えてやしないよ。／He won’t remember anything you warned him about.</div><div class="explanation">Emphasizes that “there is no N” or “it is not A/not V.”</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x83762"><span class="number">2. </span>もうひとつ／いまひとつ　...ない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>給料</rb><rt>きゅう りょう</rt></ruby>はいいが、<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>内容</rb><rt>ない よう</rt></ruby>がもうひとつ<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>らない。／The pay is good but the contents of the job are not quite satisfying.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>風邪</rb><rt>か ぜ</rt></ruby>がもうひとつよくならない。／I just can’t shake off this cold.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>今年</rb><rt>ことし</rt></ruby>のみかんは、<ruby><rb>甘味</rb><rt>あま み</rt></ruby>がもうひとつ<ruby><rb>足</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>りない。／This year’s oranges are not quite sweet enough.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>今年</rb><rt>ことし</rt></ruby>のみかんは、<ruby><rb>甘味</rb><rt>あま み</rt></ruby>がもうひとつだ。／This year’s oranges don’t have the sweetness I want.</div><div class="explanation">Used in the patterns もうひとつ...ない or 今ひとつ...ない and indicates that something has not reached the level the speaker had expected. The situation is not bad, but at the same time the level achieved is not sufficient or satisfactory. (1) means that the speaker does not like the contents of the job very much. (2) means that the speaker’s cold isn’t completely better. (3) and (4) mean that the oranges are slightly lacking in sweetness.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x83799"><span class="number">3. </span>Nひとつ...できない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>近</rb><rt>ちか</rt></ruby>ごろの<ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>はぞうきんひとつ<ruby><rb>満足</rb><rt>まん ぞく</rt></ruby>にしぼれない。／Children nowadays can’t even wring a cloth properly.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>女優</rb><rt>じょ ゆう</rt></ruby>のくせに、<ruby><rb>歌</rb><rt>うた</rt></ruby>ひとつ<ruby><rb>歌</rb><rt>うた</rt></ruby>えない。／Even though she’s an actress, she can’t even sing anything.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>このごろの<ruby><rb>若</rb><rt>わか</rt></ruby>いやつは、<ruby><rb>挨拶</rb><rt>あい さつ</rt></ruby>ひとつ<ruby><rb>満足</rb><rt>まん ぞく</rt></ruby>にできない。／Young people these days can’t even greet others properly.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>留学</rb><rt>りゅう がく</rt></ruby>してから、もう<ruby><rb>半年</rb><rt>はん とし</rt></ruby>にもなるのに、<ruby><rb>息子</rb><rt>むすこ</rt></ruby>ははがきひとつよこさない。／My son has been abroad studying for six months already but has yet to send even a postcard.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>ビール<ruby><rb>一杯</rb><rt>いっ ぱい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>めないようでは、<ruby><rb>社会</rb><rt>しゃ かい</rt></ruby>にでてから<ruby><rb>困</rb><rt>こま</rt></ruby>るだろう。／You will have problems when you go out into the world if you can’t drink even a glass of beer.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><ruby><rb>当時</rb><rt>とう じ</rt></ruby>はたいへん<ruby><rb>貧</rb><rt>まず</rt></ruby>しく、<ruby><rb>子供達</rb><rt>こ ども たち</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>着物</rb><rt>き もの</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>一枚</rb><rt>いち まい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>新</rb><rt>あたら</rt></ruby>しく<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>ってやれなかった。／In those days we were so poor that we couldn’t even buy any new clothes for our children.</div><div class="explanation">Used to emphasize the fact that a simple thing cannot be achieved or accomplished on this occasion, even though it would have been possible in any other situation. Often used to express the speaker’s disapproval or criticism by implying that any more than what has been stated is not achievable.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x83848"><span class="number">4. </span>ひとつ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>ひとつよろしくお<ruby><rb>願</rb><rt>ねが</rt></ruby>いしますよ。／Could you please do me a favor?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>ひとつ<ruby><rb>頼</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>まれてほしいことがあるんだが。／There is something I would like you to help me with.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>ひとつ<ruby><rb>頼</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>まれてくれないか。／Will you do something for me?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>ここはひとつやってみるか。／Shall we have a go at this?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>ひとつ<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>にのってみようか。／Shall I take up the suggestion?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>おひとつどうぞ。／Please have one (food or drink).</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span>ひとついかがですか。／Would you like to try one/some?</div><div class="explanation">Used idiomatically in conversation. Means “try, have a go.” Used in requests as in the cases of examples (1) - (3), or in describing trying something as in the case of examples (4) and (5).  Also used when offering food or drink as shown in examples (6) and (7).</div></body></html>