<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>そうすると</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x25387">【そうすると】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x25392"><span class="number">1. </span>そうすると〈opportunity〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>ビルのまわりを<ruby><rb>回</rb><rt>まわ</rt></ruby>ってみた。そうすると、ひとつだけ<ruby><rb>電気</rb><rt>でん き</rt></ruby>のついている<ruby><rb>窓</rb><rt>まど</rt></ruby>があった。／I went around the building. When I did so, I found just one window with a light on.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>切符</rb><rt>きっ ぷ</rt></ruby>はまとめて20<ruby><rb>人分</rb><rt>にん ぶん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>予約</rb><rt>よ やく</rt></ruby>することにした。そうすると、<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>割</rb><rt>わ</rt></ruby>り<ruby><rb>引</rb><rt>び</rt></ruby>きがあって<ruby><rb>助</rb><rt>たす</rt></ruby>かるのだ。／I decided to reserve twenty tickets all at once. You get a bit of a discount that way, which helps.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>テニスの<ruby><rb>練習</rb><rt>れん しゅう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>土曜日</rb><rt>ど よう び</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>朝</rb><rt>あさ</rt></ruby>することにしよう。そうすると、<ruby><rb>土曜日</rb><rt>ど よう び</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>午後</rb><rt>ご ご</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby>ができる。／I’ll practice tennis on Saturday morning. Then I’ll have some free time in the afternoon.</div><div class="explanation">Means that a later event occurs or is noticed as the result of an earlier event or action. そうすると cannot be followed by expressions indicating an intentional act of the speaker.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（×）</span>20人以上予約して下さい。そうすると割引きしましょう。／Please book for twenty people or more. Then let’s give you a discount.</div><div class="explanation">In addition, the second sentence often expresses an interpretation of the event described in the first sentence.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x25445"><span class="number">2. </span>そうすると〈consequence〉</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>ホテルを<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>るのが5<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby>で、<ruby><rb>新幹線</rb><rt>しん かん せん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>るのが6<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby>です。／We’re leaving the hotel at five o’clock, and taking the <i>s</i><i>hinkansen </i>(bullet train) at six.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>そうすると、<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>物</rb><rt>もの</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby>がなくなりますよ。／But then we won’t have any time for shopping!</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>お<ruby><rb>客</rb><rt>きゃく</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>数</rb><rt>かず</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>百</rb><rt>ひゃく</rt></ruby>から<ruby><rb>二百</rb><rt>に ひゃく</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>増</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>えそうなんですが。／It looks like the number of guests might increase from 100 to 200.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>そうすると、この<ruby><rb>会場</rb><rt>かい じょう</rt></ruby>ではできなくなりますね。／In that case, we can’t hold it in this venue, can we.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>パスポートはおととし<ruby><rb>取</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>りました。／I got a passport the year before last. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>そうすると、<ruby><rb>来年</rb><rt>らい ねん</rt></ruby>はまだ<ruby><rb>大丈夫</rb><rt>だい じょう ぶ</rt></ruby>ですね。／So, it will still be valid next year.</div><div class="explanation">Used to make a statement in response to something the previous speaker has said. そうすると is followed by an interpretation of what the other person has said, a logical conclusion, etc. Roughly equivalent to すると. Used in spoken language.</div></body></html>