<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>てある</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x39136">【てある】</h1><h4 class="info">［V-てある］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>テーブルの<ruby><rb>上</rb><rt>うえ</rt></ruby>には<ruby><rb>花</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>飾</rb><rt>かざ</rt></ruby>ってある。／Flowers have been arranged on the tabletops.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>辞書</rb><rt>じ しょ</rt></ruby>どこ？／Where is the dictionary?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>辞書</rb><rt>じ しょ</rt></ruby>なら<ruby><rb>机</rb><rt>つくえ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>上</rb><rt>うえ</rt></ruby>においてあるだろ。／The dictionary? It should be on the desk.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>黒板</rb><rt>こく ばん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>英語</rb><rt>えい ご</rt></ruby>でGoodbye！と<ruby><rb>書</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>いてあった。／It said “Good-bye” in English on the blackboard.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>窓</rb><rt>まど</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>開</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>けてあるのは<ruby><rb>空気</rb><rt>くう き</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>れかえるためだ。／The window’s been left open to air out the room.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>あしたの<ruby><rb>授業</rb><rt>じゅ ぎょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>予習</rb><rt>よ しゅう</rt></ruby>はしてあるが、<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>っていくものはまだ<ruby><rb>確</rb><rt>たし</rt></ruby>かめていない。／I have prepped for tomorrow’s class, but I haven’t checked what I have to take.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><ruby><rb>起</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>きてみると、もう<ruby><rb>朝食</rb><rt>ちょう しょく</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>作</rb><rt>つく</rt></ruby>ってあった。／Breakfast had already been cooked when I got up.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span><ruby><rb>推薦状</rb><rt>すい せん じょう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>準備</rb><rt>じゅん び</rt></ruby>してあるから、いつでも<ruby><rb>好</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>きなときにとりにきてください。／The letter of recommendation is ready, so please come anytime to get it.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（8）</span><ruby><rb>電車</rb><rt>でん しゃ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>中</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>忘</rb><rt>わす</rt></ruby>れたかさは、<ruby><rb>事務所</rb><rt>じ む しょ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>届</rb><rt>とど</rt></ruby>けてあった。／The umbrella which I left on the train had been delivered to the business office.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（9）</span>ホテルの<ruby><rb>手配</rb><rt>て はい</rt></ruby>は、もうしてあるので<ruby><rb>心配</rb><rt>しん ぱい</rt></ruby>ありません。／The hotel’s already been reserved, so there’s no worry.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（10）</span>パスポートはとってあったので、<ruby><rb>安心</rb><rt>あん しん</rt></ruby>していたら、ビザも<ruby><rb>必要</rb><rt>ひつ よう</rt></ruby>だということが<ruby><rb>分</rb><rt>わ</rt></ruby>かった。／Because I had already gotten a passport, I felt relieved, but then I found out that I needed a visa, too.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（11）</span>その<ruby><rb>手紙</rb><rt>て がみ</rt></ruby>は、カウンターにおかれてあった。／The letter was lying on the counter.</div><div class="explanation">Uses a transitive verb to express that a situation exists as a result of someone’s action. In some cases, depending on the context, it can have the meaning “do something in preparation for the future.”</div><div class="explanation">In this pattern, the semantic object of the verb becomes the subject and the person who has taken the action is often not expressed, but the existence of that person is implied. There is an expression 窓があいている, similar to 窓があけてある, but the former doesn’t imply an agent. In あけてある, the existence of the agent is felt even though it is not expressed, while this is not felt in あいている. In addition, when the passive is used, as in (11), the existence of the agent is felt more strongly. Refer to【ておく】for the difference between てある and ておく.</div></body></html>