<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>なんか</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x67606">【なんか】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x67611"><span class="number">1. </span>なんか〈things〉</h2><div class="explanation">A casual way of saying なにか. Used in spoken Japanese.</div><h4 class="reference">→<a href="part0694.xhtml#idtitlex1x63776">【なにか】</a></h4><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x67628"><span class="number">a. </span>なんか</h3><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>なんかたべるものない？／Is there anything to eat?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>冷蔵庫</rb><rt>れい ぞう こ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>てみたら？　なんか<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>っていると<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>うけど。／Why don’t you look inside the fridge? I think there should be something.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>誕生日</rb><rt>たん じょう び</rt></ruby>にはなんか<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>ってやろうと<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>っています。／I’m thinking of buying something for his birthday.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>手伝</rb><rt>て つだ</rt></ruby>えなかったことは、きっと<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>かで<ruby><rb>償</rb><rt>つぐな</rt></ruby>うよ。／I’ll surely make up for what I couldn’t do for you today.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>か<ruby><rb>変</rb><rt>へん</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>音</rb><rt>おと</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>こえませんでしたか。／Didn’t you just hear some strange noise? </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>この<ruby><rb>部屋</rb><rt>へ や</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>か<ruby><rb>臭</rb><rt>にお</rt></ruby>わない？／Don’t you think this room smells like something?</div><div class="explanation">Expresses something or some state which one cannot clearly refer to. </div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x67686"><span class="number">b. </span>なんか〈appearance〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>と<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>していると、なんかほっとした<ruby><rb>気持</rb><rt>き も</rt></ruby>ちになる。／When I talk to her, I just feel relieved for some reason.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>っていること、なんか<ruby><rb>変</rb><rt>へん</rt></ruby>だと<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>いませんか。／Don’t you think what she is saying is somewhat strange?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>たちがなんか<ruby><rb>妙</rb><rt>みょう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>静</rb><rt>しず</rt></ruby>かですね。なにかいたずらをしているんじゃありませんか。／The children are unusually quiet today. I wonder if they are up to something naughty.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>なんか<ruby><rb>不思議</rb><rt>ふ し ぎ</rt></ruby>だなあ、この<ruby><rb>町</rb><rt>まち</rt></ruby>は。<ruby><rb>前</rb><rt>まえ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>たことがあるような<ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>がしてならない。／I don’t know why, but I feel strange about this town. I can’t help thinking that I’ve been here before. </div><div class="explanation">Expresses the meaning of “I don’t know why it’s so” or “for some reason.”</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x67723"><span class="number">c. </span>...かなんか</h3><h4 class="info">［N／A／V　かなんか］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>今度</rb><rt>こん ど</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>みは<ruby><rb>映画</rb><rt>えい が</rt></ruby>かなんか<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>かない？／Shall we go to a movie or something on the next day off?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>この<ruby><rb>傷</rb><rt>きず</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>石</rb><rt>いし</rt></ruby>かなんかがぶつかってできたものでしょう。／I guess that a stone or something hit it to create this scrape.  </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>お<ruby><rb>見舞</rb><rt>み ま</rt></ruby>いには<ruby><rb>果物</rb><rt>くだ もの</rt></ruby>かなんかを<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>くことにしよう。／I’ll take fruit or something when I pay a visit at the hospital.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>田中</rb><rt>た なか</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>くん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>試験</rb><rt>し けん</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>近</rb><rt>ちか</rt></ruby>いかなんかでとても<ruby><rb>忙</rb><rt>いそが</rt></ruby>しそうです。／Tanaka-kun seems to be very busy because his exams are approaching or something. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>田中</rb><rt>た なか</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>くん</rt></ruby>はどうしたの？／What happened to Tanaka-kun?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>忘</rb><rt>わす</rt></ruby>れものをしたかなんかで、<ruby><rb>取</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>りに<ruby><rb>戻</rb><rt>もど</rt></ruby>っています。／He went back because he forgot something, I guess.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses something that one cannot refer to clearly but is similar to the thing mentioned. </div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x67780"><span class="number">d. </span>Nやなんか</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>スポーツは<ruby><rb>好</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>きですが、<ruby><rb>野球</rb><rt>や きゅう</rt></ruby>やなんかの<ruby><rb>球技</rb><rt>きゅう ぎ</rt></ruby>はあまり<ruby><rb>得意</rb><rt>とく い</rt></ruby>ではないんですよ。／I like sports, but I’m not good at ball games like baseball. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>出張</rb><rt>しゅっ ちょう</rt></ruby>やなんかで<ruby><rb>旅行</rb><rt>りょ こう</rt></ruby>をするときはいつもこの<ruby><rb>鞄</rb><rt>かばん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>っていきます。／I always bring this bag when I do things like make a business trip.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>この<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>友達</rb><rt>とも だち</rt></ruby>やなんかには<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>わないで<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>くだ</rt></ruby>さいね。／Please don’t tell this story to your friends or anybody else, OK?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>山</rb><rt>やま</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>遭難</rb><rt>そう なん</rt></ruby>したときは、<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>っていたチョコレートやなんかを<ruby><rb>食</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>べて<ruby><rb>救助</rb><rt>きゅう じょ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>待</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>ちました。／When I got lost in the mountains, while I was waiting to be saved I ate things like the chocolate that I had brought with me.</div><div class="explanation">Used to express the thing mentioned, N, and some other similar things.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x67817"><span class="number">2. </span>なんか</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x67820"><span class="number">a. </span>Nなんか</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>お<ruby><rb>酒</rb><rt>さけ</rt></ruby>はワインなんか<ruby><rb>好</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>きで、よく<ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>んでいます。／As for alcohol, I like things like wine and drink it quite often.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>食料品</rb><rt>しょく りょう ひん</rt></ruby>なんかは<ruby><rb>近</rb><rt>ちか</rt></ruby>くの<ruby><rb>店</rb><rt>みせ</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>うことができます。／You can buy groceries and other things at the shop nearby.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>山本</rb><rt>やま もと</rt></ruby>さんや<ruby><rb>鈴木</rb><rt>すず き</rt></ruby>さんなんかはこの<ruby><rb>案</rb><rt>あん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>反対</rb><rt>はん たい</rt></ruby>のようです。／People like Yamamoto-san and Suzuki-san seem to be against this idea.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>部品</rb><rt>ぶ ひん</rt></ruby>やなんかは<ruby><rb>揃</rb><rt>そろ</rt></ruby>っているんですが、<ruby><rb>技術者</rb><rt>ぎ じゅつ しゃ</rt></ruby>がいないので<ruby><rb>直</rb><rt>なお</rt></ruby>せないんです。／We have all the parts and things, but we can’t fix it because we don’t have a technician. </div><div class="explanation">Exemplifies the main one(s) among various other items. Implies that there are other similar sorts of things. This expression is used in the form など in casual speech.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x67857"><span class="number">b. </span>V-たりなんかして</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>みの<ruby><rb>日</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>本</rb><rt>ほん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>読</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>んだりなんかして<ruby><rb>過</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>ごします。／I spend my days off doing things like reading books.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>どうしたの？　ひとりで<ruby><rb>笑</rb><rt>わら</rt></ruby>ったりなんかして。／What’s the deal? How come you’re snickering by yourself and all?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>お<ruby><rb>父</rb><rt>とう</rt></ruby>さんたら<ruby><rb>急</rb><rt>きゅう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>怒</rb><rt>おこ</rt></ruby>り<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>だ</rt></ruby>したりなんかして。この<ruby><rb>頃</rb><rt>ごろ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>疲</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>れてるのかな。／What’s with Father that he does things like suddenly get angry? I wonder if he hasn’t been a little tired out these days.</div><div class="explanation">Exemplifies main one(s) among various other actions. Implies that there are other similar sorts of actions. A colloquial equivalent of など that is used in casual speech.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x67888"><span class="number">c. </span>なんか...ない</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>お<ruby><rb>金</rb><rt>かね</rt></ruby>がないから、<ruby><rb>旅行</rb><rt>りょ こう</rt></ruby>なんか<ruby><rb>滅多</rb><rt>めっ た</rt></ruby>にできない。／I don’t have any money at all, so I can hardly do things like take a trip. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>あんな<ruby><rb>男</rb><rt>おとこ</rt></ruby>となんか<ruby><rb>口</rb><rt>くち</rt></ruby>もききたくない。／I don’t even want to speak to such a guy.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>そんなばかげたことなんか<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えたこともありません。／I’ve never thought about such a stupid thing.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>こんな<ruby><rb>汚</rb><rt>きたな</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>部屋</rb><rt>へ や</rt></ruby>になんか<ruby><rb>一日</rb><rt>いち にち</rt></ruby>だって<ruby><rb>泊</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>まりたくない。／I don’t want to stay in such a filthy room even for one night.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>こんな<ruby><rb>天気</rb><rt>てん き</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>良</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>日</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>家</rb><rt>いえ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>中</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>本</rb><rt>ほん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>読</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>んでなんかいないで、<ruby><rb>外</rb><rt>そと</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>散歩</rb><rt>さん ぽ</rt></ruby>しましょうよ。／Don’t do things like reading a book inside on such a nice day as this. Let’s  take a walk outside.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>あんな<ruby><rb>映画</rb><rt>えい が</rt></ruby>ちっともおもしろくなんかないよ。／That movie is not at all interesting.</div><div class="explanation">With a variety of elements such as a noun, a verb, or a noun + verb, this なんか is followed by some negative expression. Although なんか...ない expresses negation towards a thing/state/event mentioned in the sentence, it also implies at the same time the speaker’s derogatory, humble, or unexpected feeling toward the thing/state/event expressed in the phrase with なんか. なんか...ない is rephrased as など...ない in casual speech.</div></body></html>