<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>といっても</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x50706">【といっても】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x50708"><span class="number">1. </span>といっても</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>ビデオの<ruby><rb>作品</rb><rt>さく ひん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>作</rb><rt>つく</rt></ruby>った。といっても、せいぜい 10 <ruby><rb>分</rb><rt>ぷん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>短</rb><rt>みじか</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>作品</rb><rt>さく ひん</rt></ruby>だが。／I made a video piece. But it was a short piece, no more than ten minutes at most.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>新</rb><rt>あたら</rt></ruby>しいアルバイトが<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>つかった。といっても、<ruby><rb>友達</rb><rt>とも だち</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>代</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>わりに<ruby><rb>一週間</rb><rt>いっ しゅう かん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>働</rb><rt>はたら</rt></ruby>くだけだ。／I found a new part-time job. That is, I’m just filling in for a friend for a week. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>がこのクラブの<ruby><rb>会長</rb><rt>かい ちょう</rt></ruby>です。といっても、<ruby><rb>大会</rb><rt>たい かい</rt></ruby>であいさつするだけですが。／That’s the president of this club. Which is to say that she just gives the official speeches at tournaments. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>仕事場</rb><rt>し ごと ば</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>変</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>わりました。といっても、<ruby><rb>同</rb><rt>おな</rt></ruby>じ<ruby><rb>階</rb><rt>かい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>端</rb><rt>はし</rt></ruby>から<ruby><rb>端</rb><rt>はし</rt></ruby>へ<ruby><rb>移</rb><rt>うつ</rt></ruby>っただけなんですけど。／I’m working in a new place. But I’ve really just moved from one end of the same floor to the other. </div><div class="explanation">Used to revise an expectation that arises from the previous sentence by indicating that the degree or extent of something is actually not very great. Indicates a limit.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x50745"><span class="number">2. </span>...といっても</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x50748"><span class="number">a. </span>...といっても</h3><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>みには<ruby><rb>故郷</rb><rt>こ きょう</rt></ruby>へ<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>ります。／I’m going back to my hometown for the vacation. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>じゃあ、<ruby><rb>当分</rb><rt>とう ぶん</rt></ruby>お<ruby><rb>目</rb><rt>め</rt></ruby>にかかれませんね。／Well then, we won’t be seeing you for a while, will we?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>いや、<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>るといっても、<ruby><rb>一週間</rb><rt>いっ しゅう かん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>程度</rb><rt>てい ど</rt></ruby>で、すぐまた<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>ます。／Actually, even though I’m going home, it’s only for about a week, so I'll be back soon. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>料理</rb><rt>りょう り</rt></ruby>ができるといっても、<ruby><rb>卵焼</rb><rt>たまご や</rt></ruby>きぐらいです。／I say I can cook, albeit just <i>tamagoyaki</i> (Japanese omelet).</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>シンガポールへ<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ったといっても、<ruby><rb>実際</rb><rt>じっ さい</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>一日</rb><rt>いち にち</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>滞在</rb><rt>たい ざい</rt></ruby>しただけです。／Although I have been to Singapore, it was really just a one-day stopover. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>去年</rb><rt>きょ ねん</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>珍</rb><rt>めずら</rt></ruby>しく<ruby><rb>雪</rb><rt>ゆき</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>りました。／Last year we had an unusual snowfall. </div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>へえ、あんな<ruby><rb>暖</rb><rt>あたた</rt></ruby>かい<ruby><rb>所</rb><rt>ところ</rt></ruby>でも<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>るんですか。／Really? It snows even in such a warm place?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>いや、<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>ったといっても、ほんの<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>しで、すぐ<ruby><rb>消</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>えてしまいました。／Well, it did snow, but only a little that melted right away.  </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>日本舞踊</rb><rt>に ほん ぶ よう</rt></ruby>ができるといっても、ほんのお<ruby><rb>遊</rb><rt>あそ</rt></ruby>び<ruby><rb>程度</rb><rt>てい ど</rt></ruby>です。／I can do traditional Japanese dance, but it’s just for fun, nothing more.</div><div class="explanation">Used to supplement a previous statement by indicating that the degree or extent of something is actually not very great. </div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x50838"><span class="number">b. </span>ひとくちに...といっても</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>一口</rb><rt>ひと くち</rt></ruby>にアジアといっても、<ruby><rb>広大</rb><rt>こう だい</rt></ruby>で、<ruby><rb>多種多様</rb><rt>た しゅ た よう</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>文化</rb><rt>ぶん か</rt></ruby>があるのです。／The term “Asia” is a simple one, but it refers to a vast area with many diverse cultures. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>一口</rb><rt>ひと くち</rt></ruby>にバラといっても、<ruby><rb>実</rb><rt>じつ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>豊富</rb><rt>ほう ふ</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>種類</rb><rt>しゅ るい</rt></ruby>があります。／What we call “the rose” actually includes an abundant range of varieties. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>一口</rb><rt>ひと くち</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>日本人</rb><rt>に ほん じん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>え<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>かた</rt></ruby>といっても、いろいろな<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>え<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>かた</rt></ruby>があるので、どうとは<ruby><rb>決</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>めにくいのです。／Even if you say “the Japanese way of thinking,” it is not easy to determine what this is, because there are many different ways of thinking. </div><div class="explanation">Expresses that something summed up rather simply is actually more complex in nature. </div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x50869"><span class="number">c. </span>...といっても...ない</h3><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>来週</rb><rt>らい しゅう</rt></ruby>はテストがあるんです。／I’ve got a test next week.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>じゃあ、このハイキングはだめですね。／Well, I guess we can’t go hiking then.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>いえ、テストがあるといっても、そんなにたいしたものじゃありませんから、<ruby><rb>一日</rb><rt>いち にち</rt></ruby>ぐらいはだいじょうぶです。／No, even though it’s a test, it’s not such a big deal, so taking one day off shouldn’t be a problem.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>山登</rb><rt>やま のぼ</rt></ruby>りが<ruby><rb>趣味</rb><rt>しゅ み</rt></ruby>だと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>っても、そんなに<ruby><rb>経験</rb><rt>けい けん</rt></ruby>があるわけではありません。／I may say that mountain-climbing is one of my hobbies, but that doesn't mean I have very much experience.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>風邪</rb><rt>か ぜ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>引</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>いたと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>っても、そんなに<ruby><rb>熱</rb><rt>ねつ</rt></ruby>はない。／I’ve caught some kind of bug, but I don’t have any temperature to speak of.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>アルバイトの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>がやめたといっても、<ruby><rb>店</rb><rt>みせ</rt></ruby>のほうは<ruby><rb>別</rb><rt>べつ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>支障</rb><rt>し しょう</rt></ruby>はない。／It’s true that a part-time worker has quit, but that won’t cause any problems for the store. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>土曜日</rb><rt>ど よう び</rt></ruby>には、<ruby><rb>夫</rb><rt>おっと</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>姉</rb><rt>あね</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>遊</rb><rt>あそ</rt></ruby>びに<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>く</rt></ruby>ることになっている。しかし、お<ruby><rb>客</rb><rt>きゃく</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>く</rt></ruby>るといっても、<ruby><rb>別</rb><rt>べつ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>特</rb><rt>とく</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>忙</rb><rt>いそが</rt></ruby>しいわけではない。／My husband’s sister will be coming to visit us on Saturday. But even though we’ll have a guest, I won’t be particularly busy. </div><div class="explanation">Used to indicate that some kind of special situation has come about, and that although a certain consequence is expected, its degree or extent will not be very great, or no particular problem will arise.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x50934"><span class="number">3. </span>...といってもいいだろう</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>これは、この<ruby><rb>作家</rb><rt>さっ か</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>最高</rb><rt>さい こう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>傑作</rb><rt>けっ さく</rt></ruby>だといってもいいだろう。／I think it could be said that this work is the author’s masterpiece.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>川田</rb><rt>かわ だ</rt></ruby>さんは、かれの<ruby><rb>本当</rb><rt>ほん  とう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>恩師</rb><rt>おん し</rt></ruby>だといってもいいだろう。／I suppose you could say that Kawada-san is his true mentor. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>事実上</rb><rt>じ じつ じょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>決勝</rb><rt>けっ しょう</rt></ruby>は、この<ruby><rb>試合</rb><rt>し あい</rt></ruby>だと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ってもいいだろう。／I think it’s possible to say that, for all intents and purposes, this match will be the final.</div><div class="explanation">Means “such-and-such an evaluation is probably not mistaken.” Used when offering an interpretation, judgment, or critique of a situation or person. A more euphemistic expression than ...といえる.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x50965"><span class="number">4. </span>...といってもいいすぎではない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>環境破壊</rb><rt>かん きょう は かい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>は、これから<ruby><rb>世界</rb><rt>せ かい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>最</rb><rt>もっと</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>重要</rb><rt>じゅう よう</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>課題</rb><rt>か だい</rt></ruby>になるといっても<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>過</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>ぎではない。／It’s not an overstatement to say that the problem of environmental destruction will be the crucial issue facing the entire world from now on. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>成功</rb><rt>せい こう</rt></ruby>はすべて<ruby><rb>有田</rb><rt>あり た</rt></ruby>さんのおかげだといってもいいすぎではない。／It’s not too much to say that all our success is thanks to Arita-san. </div><div class="explanation">Means “to say such-and-such is not an exaggeration.” Used for strong emphasis of an assertion. In formal written language, 言いすぎ can be replaced by 過言.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（例）</span>そのニュースは国中の人々を幸福な気分にさせたといっても過言ではない。／It is not an exaggeration to say that this news made people all throughout the nation very happy. </div></body></html>