<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>てはどうか</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x43513">【てはどうか】</h1><h4 class="info">［V-てはどうか］</h4><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>この<ruby><rb>辺</rb><rt>へん</rt></ruby>でちょっと<ruby><rb>休憩</rb><rt>きゅう けい</rt></ruby>してはどうですか。／How about taking a break here?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>そうですね。／That sounds good.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>作戦</rb><rt>さく せん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>変</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>えてみてはどうですか。／How about changing strategies?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>この<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>については、<ruby><rb>議長</rb><rt>ぎ ちょう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>一任</rb><rt>いち にん</rt></ruby>してはどうだろうか。／What if we leave this matter up to the chairperson?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>家</rb><rt>いえ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>譲渡</rb><rt>じょう と</rt></ruby>のことで<ruby><rb>家族</rb><rt>か ぞく</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>間</rb><rt>あいだ</rt></ruby>でもめているんです。／The family is bickering about the transfer of the house.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>弁護士</rb><rt>べん ご し</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>相談</rb><rt>そう だん</rt></ruby>してみてはどうですか。／Why don’t you consult a lawyer?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span>この<ruby><rb>壁</rb><rt>かべ</rt></ruby>はちょっと<ruby><rb>暗</rb><rt>くら</rt></ruby>いですね。<ruby><rb>壁紙</rb><rt>かべ がみ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>取</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>りかえてみてはどうでしょうか。／Don’t you think this wall is a little dark? How about changing the wallpaper?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>そうですね。／That could help.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>しばらく<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>わないでそっとしておいてみては？／How about saying nothing for a while and just letting things be?</div><div class="explanation">An idiomatic expression used to make suggestions or recommendations. Often used in the form V-てみては. Essentially synonymous with V-たらどうか, but V-てはどうか has the tone of written language and is commonly used when writing letters or speaking in formal situations, etc. In ordinary conversation, the V-たらどうか form is  preferred. V-ちゃどうか is used in casual conversation. In polite language, forms such as V-てはいかがですか and V-てはいかがでしょうか are used. In (6), the latter half of the expression has been omitted.</div></body></html>