<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>たいした</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x28666">【たいした】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x28668"><span class="number">1. </span>たいしたNだ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>たいした<ruby><rb>人物</rb><rt>じん ぶつ</rt></ruby>だ。たった<ruby><rb>一人</rb><rt>ひとり</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>事業</rb><rt>じ ぎょう</rt></ruby>をおこしたのだから。／He’s an amazing person. He created this business single-handedly.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>中国語</rb><rt>ちゅう ごく ご</rt></ruby>を1<ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>ねん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>習</rb><rt>なら</rt></ruby>っただけであれだけ<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>せるんだから、たいしたものだ。／It’s really something that she can speak Chinese so fluently after studying it for only a year.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>あんなに<ruby><rb>大勢</rb><rt>おお ぜい</rt></ruby>のお<ruby><rb>客</rb><rt>きゃく</rt></ruby>さんに<ruby><rb>一人</rb><rt>ひとり</rt></ruby>でフルコースの<ruby><rb>料理</rb><rt>りょう り</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>作</rb><rt>つく</rt></ruby>るなんて、たいした<ruby><rb>腕前</rb><rt>うで まえ</rt></ruby>だ。／For one person to be able to prepare full-course meals for so many customers is an amazing skill.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>紹介状</rb><rt>しょう かい じょう</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>たずに<ruby><rb>社長</rb><rt>しゃ ちょう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>会</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>いに<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ったそうよ。／I heard he went to see the company president without even taking a letter of invitation.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>たいした<ruby><rb>度胸</rb><rt>ど きょう</rt></ruby>ね。／That takes a lot of nerve, doesn’t it.</div><div class="explanation">Means that someone’s activities or achievements are remarkable. The N slot is filled by nouns such as もの (thing), 人 (person), 人物 (person, man/woman), 腕前 (skill), 度胸 (courage, nerve), 力量 (capacity).</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x28717"><span class="number">2. </span>たいしたNではない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>たいしたものではありませんが、おみやげにと<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>ってきました。／It’s nothing special, but I bought it with the idea it might do as a souvenir.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>にとってボーナスが<ruby><rb>多</rb><rt>おお</rt></ruby>いか<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すく</rt></ruby>ないかはたいした<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>ではない。<ruby><rb>休</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>みが<ruby><rb>取</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>れるかどうかが<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>だ。／For me, whether or not I get a big bonus is not important. My concern is whether or not I can take time off.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>朝</rb><rt>あさ</rt></ruby>から<ruby><rb>病院</rb><rt>びょう いん</rt></ruby>って、なにか<ruby><rb>大</rb><rt>たい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>変</rb><rt>へん</rt></ruby>なことがあったんですか。／You said you were at the hospital this morning? Was it anything serious?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いや、たいしたことではありません。<ruby><rb>家</rb><rt>いえ</rt></ruby>のねこがちょっとけがをしただけです。／No, it’s nothing serious. My cat was slightly injured, that’s all.</div><div class="explanation">Means that something is not very important or serious.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x28760"><span class="number">3. </span>たいしたことはない</h2><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>お<ruby><rb>宅</rb><rt>たく</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>奥</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>さん、<ruby><rb>料理</rb><rt>りょう り</rt></ruby>がお<ruby><rb>上手</rb><rt>じょう ず</rt></ruby>だそうですね。／I hear that your wife is a good cook.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いや、たいしたことはありませんよ。／No, not that good.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>日本語</rb><rt>に ほん ご</rt></ruby>、うまいですね。／Your Japanese is very good.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いや、たいしたことはありません。<ruby><rb>敬語</rb><rt>けい ご</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>かた</rt></ruby>なんか、まだまだです。／No, it’s not that good. I still struggle with using honorific language and things like that.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>かぜの<ruby><rb>具合</rb><rt>ぐ あ</rt></ruby>いはいかがですか。／How is your cold?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>おかげさまで、たいしたことはありません。／Thank you for your concern. It’s not that bad.</div><div class="explanation">Used to deny the extent of something, with the sense of それほど...ではない (not that much). In (1) and (2), it is used as a response to a compliment and conveys a feeling of modesty.</div></body></html>