<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>んです</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x108933">【んです】</h1><h4 class="info">［N／Na　なんです］</h4><h4 class="info">［A／V　んです］</h4><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>どうしたんですか。<ruby><rb>元気</rb><rt>げん き</rt></ruby>がありませんね。／What’s the matter? You don’t have any pep.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>ちょっとかぜなんです。／I have a bit of a cold.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>どうしてさっき<ruby><rb>山田</rb><rt>やま だ</rt></ruby>さんとしゃべらなかったの？／Why didn’t you speak to Yamada-san just now?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>はちょっと<ruby><rb>苦手</rb><rt>にが て</rt></ruby>なんです。／I am not very keen on him.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>どうしたの？　<ruby><rb>退屈</rb><rt>たい くつ</rt></ruby>？／What’s the matter? Are you bored?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いえ、ちょっとねむいんです。／No, I’m just a little sleepy.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>コンセントが<ruby><rb>抜</rb><rt>ぬ</rt></ruby>けています。だからスイッチを<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>れてもつかなかったんですよ。／It’s not plugged in and so that’s why it didn’t come on when you pressed the switch. </div><div class="explanation">This is a polite form of んだ. のです can also be used.</div><h4 class="reference">→<a href="part0865.xhtml#idtitlex1x77370">【のです】</a></h4></body></html>