<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>ないで</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x60688">【ないで】</h1><div class="explanation">ないで is the <i>te</i>-form of a negated verb. It indicates the manner, situation, or circumstances in which the action or state referred to after ないで is realized.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x60706"><span class="number">1. </span>V-ないで〈attendant circumstances〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>息子</rb><rt>むすこ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>今朝</rb><rt>け さ</rt></ruby>もご<ruby><rb>飯</rb><rt>はん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>食</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>べないで<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>かけた。／My son left the house again this morning without eating breakfast.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>一生</rb><rt>いっ しょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>結婚</rb><rt>けっ こん</rt></ruby>しないで<ruby><rb>独身</rb><rt>どく しん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>通</rb><rt>とお</rt></ruby>した。／She didn’t marry, she remained single for her entire life.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>傘</rb><rt>かさ</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>たないで<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>かけて<ruby><rb>雨</rb><rt>あめ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>られてしまった。／I went out without an umbrella and got rained on.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>予約</rb><rt>よ やく</rt></ruby>しないで<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ったら、<ruby><rb>満席</rb><rt>まん せき</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>れなかった。／I went without making a reservation, so I couldn’t get in because every seat was taken.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>歯</rb><rt>は</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>磨</rb><rt>みが</rt></ruby>かないで<ruby><rb>寝</rb><rt>ね</rt></ruby>てはいけません。／Don’t go to bed without brushing your teeth.</div><div class="explanation">Followed by a main verb clause X, V-ないでhas the meaning of “do X without doing Y.” In written language, ...ずに is also used. Cannot be replaced by V-なくて.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x60752"><span class="number">2. </span>V-ないで〈instead of〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>親</rb><rt>おや</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>ないで<ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>た。／The child came, but not the parents.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>ロンドンには<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>かないでパリとローマに<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>った。／Instead of London, I went to Paris and Rome.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>運動</rb><rt>うん どう</rt></ruby>してもちっともやせないで、かえって<ruby><rb>体重</rb><rt>たい じゅう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>増</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>えた。／Even though I’m working out, I’m not losing weight at all—instead I’ve gained a little.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>頑張</rb><rt>がん ば</rt></ruby>っているのに<ruby><rb>成績</rb><rt>せい せき</rt></ruby>はちっともよくならないで、むしろ<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>さ</rt></ruby>がってきている。／Even though I’m trying my best, my marks aren’t getting any better—if anything, they’re getting worse.</div><div class="explanation">V-ないで is used to make a contrastive statement about two things. Means “do such-and-such instead of doing something else,” or “such-and-such happens instead of something else.” Often implies that what follows V-ないで is a result that contradicts the speaker’s expectation or anticipation. In written language, ...ずに is also used.</div><div class="explanation">It is not impossible to replace V-ないで with V-なくて. However, なくて does not convey the contrastive meaning of 代わりに (instead of). Rather, it means that two situations or states of affairs have been realized at virtually the same time. Thus, when the speaker wants to express contrastive meaning, ないで must be used.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x60802"><span class="number">3. </span>V-ないで〈cause〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>がちっとも<ruby><rb>勉強</rb><rt>べん きょう</rt></ruby>しないで<ruby><rb>困</rb><rt>こま</rt></ruby>っています。／I don’t know what to do, because my child isn’t studying at all.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>やつが<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>ないで<ruby><rb>助</rb><rt>たす</rt></ruby>かった。／I was relieved that the guy didn’t come.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>試験</rb><rt>し けん</rt></ruby>にパスできないでがっかりした。／I was disappointed because I couldn’t pass the exam.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>朝</rb><rt>あさ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>起</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>きられないで<ruby><rb>授業</rb><rt>じゅ ぎょう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>れた。／I was late for class because I couldn’t get up in the morning.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>大事故</rb><rt>だい じ こ</rt></ruby>にならないでよかった。／I’m glad it didn’t turn into a big accident.</div><div class="explanation">Means “because someone does not do X” or “because something does not happen.” Often followed by expressions that indicate an emotion or evaluation, such as 困った (didn’t know what to do) in (1) and 助かった (was relieved) in (2), or expressions that present a chronological relationship between situations or events, as in (4). In this usage, ないで can be replaced relatively freely by なくて.</div></body></html>