<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>んだろう</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x108808">【んだろう】</h1><h4 class="info">［N／Na　なんだろう］</h4><h4 class="info">［A／V　んだろう］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>子</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>どもたちがたくさん<ruby><rb>遊</rb><rt>あそ</rt></ruby>んでいる。もう<ruby><rb>夏休</rb><rt>なつ やす</rt></ruby>みなんだろう。／There are lots of children playing. It must already be the summer holidays.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>酒</rb><rt>さけ</rt></ruby>ばかり<ruby><rb>飲</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>んでたね。／That person drank nothing but <i>sake</i>.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>よっぽど<ruby><rb>好</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>きなんだろうね。／She must like it a lot eh?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>田中</rb><rt>た なか</rt></ruby>さんはずっと<ruby><rb>笑</rb><rt>わら</rt></ruby>いっぱなしだ。<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>がそんなにおかしいんだろう。／Tanaka-san can’t stop laughing! I wonder what’s so funny.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>きみ</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>くんだろう？／You are going too, aren’t you?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>はい、<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>くつもりです。／Yes, I intend to.</div><div class="explanation">This form is a combination of んだ and だろう.</div><h4 class="reference">→<a href="part0861.xhtml#idtitlex1x76970">【のだろう】</a></h4></body></html>