<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>いか</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x3154">【いか】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x3156"><span class="number">1. </span><ruby><rb>数</rb><rt>すう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>量</rb><rt>りょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>詞</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>+いか</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>なるべく4<ruby><rb>人以下</rb><rt>にん  い か</rt></ruby>でグループを<ruby><rb>作</rb><rt>つく</rt></ruby>ってください。／If possible, please form a group of no more than four.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>500 グラム<ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>のパックは 50<ruby><rb>円</rb><rt>えん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>引</rb><rt>び</rt></ruby>きです。／Packs containing 500 grams and under are 50 yen off.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>3000 <ruby><rb>円</rb><rt>えん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>か<ruby><rb>記念品</rb><rt>き ねん ひん</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>うとしたら、どんなものがあるでしょうか。／If we are to buy some sort of memento for under 3,000 yen, what kind of thing can we buy?</div><div class="explanation">Indicates “the number/amount stated or fewer/less.”</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x3187"><span class="number">2. </span>Nいか</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>中学生</rb><rt>ちゅう がく せい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>入場</rb><rt>にゅう じょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>無料</rb><rt>む りょう</rt></ruby>です。／Admission is free for junior high school students and younger.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>中型</rb><rt>ちゅう がた</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>車</rb><rt>くるま</rt></ruby>ならこの<ruby><rb>道</rb><rt>みち</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>通</rb><rt>とお</rt></ruby>ることができる。／Any vehicle that is medium-sized or smaller can take this road.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>B4サイズ<ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>のものでないとこの<ruby><rb>機械</rb><rt>き かい</rt></ruby>ではコピーできない。／Unless the paper size is B4 or smaller, you can’t make copies on this machine.</div><div class="explanation">When いか follows a noun that is part of an order or sequence, or shows the degree of some attribute, it indicates something at or below the position or degree of N.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x3218"><span class="number">3. </span>Nいかだ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>おまえはゴキブリ<ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>だ。／You are lower than a cockroach.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>そんなひどい<ruby><rb>仕打</rb><rt>し う</rt></ruby>ちをするとは、あいつは<ruby><rb>人間</rb><rt>にん げん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>だ。／To treat someone that cruelly makes him subhuman.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>まったくあいつの<ruby><rb>頭</rb><rt>あたま</rt></ruby>ときたら<ruby><rb>小学生</rb><rt>しょう がく せい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>だ。／That guy hasn’t got the brains of a schoolchild!</div><div class="explanation">Asserts that someone or something is lower than the person or thing represented by N. Used when one criticizes or slanders someone. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x3249"><span class="number">4. </span>Nいか+<ruby><rb>数</rb><rt>すう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>量</rb><rt>りょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>詞</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby></h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>わが<ruby><rb>社</rb><rt>しゃ</rt></ruby>では、<ruby><rb>社長</rb><rt>しゃ ちょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>約</rb><rt>やく</rt></ruby> 300 <ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>にん</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>全員</rb><rt>ぜん いん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>一丸</rb><rt>いちがん</rt></ruby>となって<ruby><rb>働</rb><rt>はたら</rt></ruby>いています。／In our company, everyone—including the president and about 300 employees—has joined forces to work together.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>山田</rb><rt>やま だ</rt></ruby>キャプテン<ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby> 38 <ruby><rb>名</rb><rt>めい</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>全員</rb><rt>ぜん いん</rt></ruby>そろいました。／Captain Yamada and 38 members—everyone is here. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>その<ruby><rb>企業</rb><rt>き ぎょう</rt></ruby>グループは、ABC<ruby><rb>社</rb><rt>しゃ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby> 12 <ruby><rb>社</rb><rt>しゃ</rt></ruby>で<ruby><rb>構成</rb><rt>こう せい</rt></ruby>されている。／This corporate group consists of ABC company and twelve other companies.</div><div class="explanation">Used when describing a group that is led or represented by the person or thing referred to by the noun. When N is a person, a job title rather than an individual name is used. Used in written language and formal spoken language. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x3280"><span class="number">5. </span>いか</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>同文</rb><rt>どうぶん</rt></ruby>。／The rest of the text is the same as in the previous document.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>詳細</rb><rt>しょう さい</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>以下</rb><rt>い か</rt></ruby>のとおりです。／The details are as follows.</div><div class="explanation">Refers to the part following the present point in a written text or a speech. Usually used in written language.</div></body></html>