<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>だいたい</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x28870">【だいたい】</h1><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>大体</rb><rt>だい たい</rt></ruby>のことは<ruby><rb>伝</rb><rt>つた</rt></ruby>えておきます。／I will convey the main points.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>だいたいわかりました。／I understand, more or less.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>この<ruby><rb>本</rb><rt>ほん</rt></ruby>をひとりで<ruby><rb>日本語</rb><rt>に ほん ご</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>翻訳</rb><rt>ほん やく</rt></ruby>するのはだいたい<ruby><rb>無理</rb><rt>む り</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>だ。／It’s almost impossible for one person to translate this book into Japanese.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>こんな<ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>電話</rb><rt>でん わ</rt></ruby>するなんてだいたい<ruby><rb>非常識</rb><rt>ひ じょう しき</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>だ。／Calling people at such an hour shows that he has practically no common sense.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あの<ruby><rb>子</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>、いつも<ruby><rb>忘</rb><rt>わす</rt></ruby>れものをするらしいの。／Apparently he always forgets to take something (to school).</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>だいたいね、<ruby><rb>注意</rb><rt>ちゅう い</rt></ruby>してやらない<ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>きみ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>いんだよ。／You’re the one to blame, because you never remind him.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>だいたいぼくよりあいつの<ruby><rb>方</rb><rt>ほう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>給料</rb><rt>きゅう りょう</rt></ruby>がいいなんて<ruby><rb>変</rb><rt>へん</rt></ruby>だよ。／To begin with, the fact that his salary is higher than mine is just crazy.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（7）</span><span class="number">A:</span>すみません、<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>れまして。／I’m sorry to be late.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>だいたいだね、<ruby><rb>君</rb><rt>きみ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby>まで<ruby><rb>時間</rb><rt>じ かん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>通</rb><rt>どお</rt></ruby>りに<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>たことがない。／The thing is, you’ve never arrived on time.</div><div class="explanation">Means “mostly; the greater part” in examples (1) and (2). Can be used to convey a sense of reproach or criticism when the speaker is stating a judgment about something that is 無理 (impossible) or 非常識 (thoughtless), as in (3) and (4). May also be used to preface criticisms, grievances, or complaints against another person, as in (5), (6), and (7).</div></body></html>