<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>の1</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x75587">【の<sub class="variation">1</sub>】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x75590"><span class="number">1. </span>NのN</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x75596"><span class="number">a. </span>NのN〈affiliation〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>これはあなたの<ruby><rb>財布</rb><rt>さい ふ</rt></ruby>じゃないですか。／Isn’t this your wallet?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>こちらは<ruby><rb>東京</rb><rt>とう きょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>電気</rb><rt>でん き</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>田中</rb><rt>た なか</rt></ruby>さんです。／This is Tanaka-san, from the Tokyo Electric Company.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>東京</rb><rt>とう きょう</rt></ruby>のアパートはとても<ruby><rb>高</rb><rt>たか</rt></ruby>い。／Apartments in Tokyo are very expensive.</div><div class="explanation">The first noun modifies the noun that comes after it and expresses the owner, affiliation, location, etc. of the thing indicated by the second noun.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x75630"><span class="number">b. </span>NのN〈characteristic〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>病気</rb><rt>びょう き</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>見舞</rb><rt>み ま</rt></ruby>う。／(I) visit the patient.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>バラの<ruby><rb>花</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>贈</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>る。／(I) give roses.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>3<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>電車</rb><rt>でん しゃ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>る。／(I) take the three o’clock train.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>カップ1<ruby><rb>杯</rb><rt>ぱい</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>水</rb><rt>みず</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>加</rb><rt>くわ</rt></ruby>える。／(I) add a cup of water.</div><div class="explanation">The first noun modifies the noun that comes after it and expresses a variety of meanings, such as a characteristic, the state, the kind, or the quantity of the noun. </div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x75670"><span class="number">c. </span>NのN〈apposition〉</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>友人</rb><rt>ゆう じん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>和男</rb><rt>かず お</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>相談</rb><rt>そう だん</rt></ruby>した。／I consulted my friend, Kazuo.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>社長</rb><rt>しゃ ちょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>木村</rb><rt>き むら</rt></ruby>さんをご<ruby><rb>紹介</rb><rt>しょう かい</rt></ruby>しましょう。／Let me introduce you to Kimura-san, the company president.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>これは<ruby><rb>次女</rb><rt>じ じょ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>安子</rb><rt>やす こ</rt></ruby>でございます。／This is my second daughter, Yasuko.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses that the N preceding の and the N following it are the same person/thing. The second noun slot is often filled by a proper noun, such as the name of someone or something.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x75701"><span class="number">d. </span>N（+<ruby><rb>助</rb><rt>じょ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>詞</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>）のN</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>成長</rb><rt>せい ちょう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>早</rb><rt>はや</rt></ruby>い。／Children grow up fast.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>自転車</rb><rt>じ てん しゃ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>修理</rb><rt>しゅう り</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>頼</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>んだ。／(I) requested bicycle repairs. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>アメリカからの<ruby><rb>観光客</rb><rt>かん こう きゃく</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>案内</rb><rt>あん ない</rt></ruby>する。／(I) guide tourists from the United States.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>京都</rb><rt>きょう と</rt></ruby>までのバスに<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>った。／(I) took the bus that goes to Kyoto.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>田中</rb><rt>た なか</rt></ruby>さんとの<ruby><rb>旅行</rb><rt>りょ こう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>楽</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>しかった。／The trip with Tanaka-san was fun.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><ruby><rb>京都</rb><rt>きょう と</rt></ruby>での<ruby><rb>宿泊</rb><rt>しゅく はく</rt></ruby>はホテルより<ruby><rb>旅館</rb><rt>りょ かん</rt></ruby>のほうがいい。／If you stay in Kyoto, you should try a Japanese-style inn rather than a hotel.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses the relationship between two nouns: 子供 and 成長 in 子供が成長する (children grow up), 自転車 and 修理 in 自転車を修理する (repair the bicycle), アメリカ and 観光客 in アメリカから観光客が来る (tourists come from the United States). The first noun modifies the second. When the particles が and を are used in the kernel (basic) clauses, as in 子供が成長する and 自転車を修理する, these particles do not appear in the NのN phrases, which in this case are 子供の成長 (children’s growth) and 自転車の修理 (bicycle repairs). Other types of particles, however, must be retained, as in アメリカからの観光客 (tourists from the United States) and 田中さんとの旅行 (the trip with Tanaka-san). The particle に does not appear in this pattern at all. へ is used instead of に, as in the example below.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（×）</span>母にの手紙／a letter to for my mother</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（○）</span>母への手紙／a letter to my mother</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x75768"><span class="number">e. </span>Nの...N</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>書</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>いた<ruby><rb>絵</rb><rt>え</rt></ruby>はすばらしい。／The picture he drew is marvelous.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>学生</rb><rt>がく せい</rt></ruby>たちの<ruby><rb>歌</rb><rt>うた</rt></ruby>う<ruby><rb>声</rb><rt>こえ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>こえる。／I can hear the students singing.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>タイプの<ruby><rb>上手</rb><rt>じょう ず</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>探</rb><rt>さが</rt></ruby>している。／I am looking for a person who is good at typing. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>花</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>咲</rb><rt>さ</rt></ruby>く<ruby><rb>頃</rb><rt>ころ</rt></ruby>にまた<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>てください。／Please come to visit us again when flowers are in bloom.</div><div class="explanation">In this pattern, の is used instead of が in a clause that modifies a noun. For example, the clauses 彼が書いた絵 (the picture he drew) and タイプが上手な人 (a person who is good at typing), which modify the nouns 絵 (picture) and 人 (person), respectively, become 彼の書いた絵 and タイプの上手な人.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x75805"><span class="number">2. </span>...の</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x75808"><span class="number">a. </span>Nの</h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>これは<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>のです。／This is mine.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>電気</rb><rt>でん き</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>製品</rb><rt>せい ひん</rt></ruby>はこの<ruby><rb>会社</rb><rt>かい しゃ</rt></ruby>のが<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>いやすい。／Regarding electric products, the ones from this company are easy to use.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>この<ruby><rb>電話</rb><rt>でん わ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>壊</rb><rt>こわ</rt></ruby>れてますので、<ruby><rb>隣</rb><rt>となり</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>部屋</rb><rt>へ や</rt></ruby>のをお<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>くだ</rt></ruby>さい。／This phone is out of order, so please use the one in the next room.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>ラーメンなら、<ruby><rb>駅前</rb><rt>えき まえ</rt></ruby>のそば<ruby><rb>屋</rb><rt>や</rt></ruby>のが<ruby><rb>安</rb><rt>やす</rt></ruby>くておいしいよ。／When it comes to Chinese noodles, those in the noodle shop by the station are delicious and inexpensive.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>柄物</rb><rt>がら もの</rt></ruby>のハンカチしか<ruby><rb>置</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>いてないけど、<ruby><rb>無地</rb><rt>む じ</rt></ruby>のはありませんか。／I can find only handkerchiefs with a pattern...do you have any plain ones?</div><div class="explanation">Means “something from/in (that belongs to/that has) N.”</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x75851"><span class="number">b. </span>...の</h3><h4 class="info">［Na なの］</h4><h4 class="info">［A／V　の］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>これはちょっと<ruby><rb>小</rb><rt>ちい</rt></ruby>さすぎます。もう<ruby><rb>少</rb><rt>すこ</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>大</rb><rt>おお</rt></ruby>きいのはないですか。／This is a little too small. Do you have one that’s a little larger?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>みんなで<ruby><rb>料理</rb><rt>りょう り</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>持</rb><rt>も</rt></ruby>ちよってパーティーをしたんだけど、<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>作</rb><rt>つく</rt></ruby>ったのが<ruby><rb>一番</rb><rt>いち ばん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>評判</rb><rt>ひょう ばん</rt></ruby>よかったんだ。／We had a potluck party where everyone brought a dish, and the one I made was the most popular.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>これは<ruby><rb>大</rb><rt>おお</rt></ruby>きすぎて<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>いにくい。もっと<ruby><rb>小</rb><rt>ちい</rt></ruby>さくて<ruby><rb>便利</rb><rt>べん り</rt></ruby>なのを<ruby><rb>探</rb><rt>さが</rt></ruby>さなくてはならない。／This one is hard to use because it’s too big. I have to look for something smaller and handier.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>その<ruby><rb>牛乳</rb><rt>ぎゅう にゅう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>古</rb><rt>ふる</rt></ruby>いから、さっき<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>ってきたのを<ruby><rb>使</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>って<ruby><rb>下</rb><rt>くだ</rt></ruby>さい。／That milk is old, so please use the one that I’ve just bought. </div><div class="explanation">Placed after a verb or an adjective and means “something large,” “something I made,” etc.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x75892"><span class="number">c. </span>Nの...の</h3><h4 class="info">［Nの Na なの］</h4><h4 class="info">［Nの　A／V　の］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>戸棚</rb><rt>と だな</rt></ruby>のなるべく<ruby><rb>頑丈</rb><rt>がん じょう</rt></ruby>なのを<ruby><rb>探</rb><rt>さが</rt></ruby>してきてほしい。／I want you to go out and find a cabinet that’s as sturdy as possible.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>ビールの<ruby><rb>冷</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby>えたのはないですか。／Is there any beer that’s been chilled?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>袋</rb><rt>ふくろ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>中</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>にリンゴの<ruby><rb>腐</rb><rt>くさ</rt></ruby>ったのが<ruby><rb>入</rb><rt>はい</rt></ruby>っていた。／There was a rotten apple in the bag.</div><div class="explanation">Used to talk about the thing denoted by N, referring in particular to a restricted class of things that are in the state expressed by the modifying clause. For instance, (2) literally means “with regard to beer, the ones (bottles/cans) that have been chilled.”</div></body></html>