<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>もう2</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x96347">【もう<sub class="variation">2</sub>】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x96353"><span class="number">1. </span>もう〈completion〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>はもう<ruby><rb>全部</rb><rt>ぜん ぶ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>終</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>わった。／Today’s work is all done.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>今</rb><rt>いま</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>評判</rb><rt>ひょう ばん</rt></ruby>になっているあの<ruby><rb>映画</rb><rt>えい が</rt></ruby>、もう<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>ましたか。／Have you seen that film that everyone’s talking about now?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>ええ、この<ruby><rb>前</rb><rt>まえ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>日</rb><rt>にち</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>曜日</rb><rt>よう び</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>ました。／Yes, I watched it last Sunday.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>食事</rb><rt>しょく じ</rt></ruby>はもうできている。／Dinner is ready.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>その<ruby><rb>問題</rb><rt>もん だい</rt></ruby>なら、もう<ruby><rb>解決</rb><rt>かい けつ</rt></ruby>している。／That problem? It’s been resolved already.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>娘</rb><rt>むすめ</rt></ruby>はもう<ruby><rb>大学</rb><rt>だい がく</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>卒業</rb><rt>そつ ぎょう</rt></ruby>したそうだ。／I heard that his daughter has already graduated from college.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><ruby><rb>駅</rb><rt>えき</rt></ruby>についたときにもう<ruby><rb>特急</rb><rt>とっ きゅう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>てしまっていた。／When I got to the station, the limited express had already left.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span><ruby><rb>手紙</rb><rt>て がみ</rt></ruby>はもう<ruby><rb>投函</rb><rt>とう かん</rt></ruby>したので、<ruby><rb>取</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>り<ruby><rb>返</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>せないんです。／I have already mailed the letter, so I can’t get it back.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（8）</span><span class="number">A:</span>すみません、<ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby>はもう<ruby><rb>閉店</rb><rt>へい てん</rt></ruby>ですか。／Excuse me, are you already closed for today?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いいえ、まだ<ruby><rb>開</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>いています。／No, we’re still open.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（9）</span><span class="number">A:</span>この<ruby><rb>本</rb><rt>ほん</rt></ruby>はもう<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>ましたか。／Is this book out yet?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いいえ、まだ<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>で</rt></ruby>ていません。<ruby><rb>予定</rb><rt>よ てい</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>来週</rb><rt>らい しゅう</rt></ruby>です。／No, not yet. It is scheduled (to be out) next week.</div><div class="explanation">When used with a verb phrase, this indicates the completion of a deed or event by a certain point in time. It is also used in interrogative sentences asking whether or not something has been completed. When the point of completion has not yet been reached, まだ...ない is used in both declarative and interrogative sentences.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x96456"><span class="number">2. </span>もう　+<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>間</rb><rt>かん</rt></ruby>／+<ruby><rb>年</rb><rt>ねん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>齢</rb><rt>れい</rt></ruby></h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>おしゃべりに<ruby><rb>夢中</rb><rt>む ちゅう</rt></ruby>になっていたら、もう5<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby>だ。／We got lost in conversation and it’s already five o’clock.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>気</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>がついたらもう<ruby><rb>朝</rb><rt>あさ</rt></ruby>だった。／Before we knew it, it was already morning.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>この<ruby><rb>子</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>はもう 10 <ruby><rb>才</rb><rt>さい</rt></ruby>だから、<ruby><rb>十分</rb><rt>じゅう ぶん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>事故</rb><rt>じ こ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>証人</rb><rt>しょう にん</rt></ruby>になれる。／This child is already ten years old, so she can serve as a witness to an accident.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>こよみの<ruby><rb>上</rb><rt>うえ</rt></ruby>ではもう<ruby><rb>春</rb><rt>はる</rt></ruby>なのに、まだ<ruby><rb>雪</rb><rt>ゆき</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>っている。／Although the calendar says it is spring, it is still snowing.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>もう<ruby><rb>夜</rb><rt>よ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>明</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>けるのに<ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>らはまだ<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>続</rb><rt>つづ</rt></ruby>けている。／They kept on talking even though dawn was breaking.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>もう8<ruby><rb>時</rb><rt>じ</rt></ruby>ですよ。<ruby><rb>起</rb><rt>お</rt></ruby>きなさい、<ruby><rb>学校</rb><rt>がっ こう</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>れますよ。／It’s already eight o’clock. Get up, or you’ll be late for school.</div><div class="explanation">Used with expressions which show time or age, it shows that a point which is rather late has been reached. As in examples (1) and (2), it includes the feeling that a certain point in time has been reached sooner than was thought.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x96505"><span class="number">3. </span>もうNa だ／もういい</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>もうおなかが<ruby><rb>一杯</rb><rt>いっ ぱい</rt></ruby>だ。／I’m already full.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>今日</rb><rt>きょう</rt></ruby>はもう<ruby><rb>十分</rb><rt>じゅう ぶん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>楽</rb><rt>たの</rt></ruby>しんだ。／I’ve already had a lot of fun today.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>お<ruby><rb>湯</rb><rt>ゆ</rt></ruby>はわいていますか。／Is the water boiling yet?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>ええ、もういいですよ。／Yes, it’s ready.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>機械</rb><rt>き かい</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>直</rb><rt>なお</rt></ruby>ったんですか。／Is the machine fixed?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>ええ、これでもういいはずです。／Yes, it should be fine now.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span>ちょっと<ruby><rb>目</rb><rt>め</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>閉</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>じて。1、2、3。／Just shut your eyes. One, two, three.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>もういい？／Okay now?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">A:</span>いいよ。はい、<ruby><rb>目</rb><rt>め</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>開</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>けて。／Okay, open your eyes.</div><div class="explanation">Used with phrases such as 一杯だ and 十分だ, this means “(it) ought to be enough/satisfactory.” もういい, basically meaning “a satisfactory situation or state has been reached,” is used in various circumstances. Depending on the context, it can mean “to have done enough,” or “to have resolved (it).” For the negative usage rules for もういい, please see Usage 5b of もう.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x96594"><span class="number">4. </span>もう...ない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>山田</rb><rt>やま だ</rt></ruby>さんはもうここにはいません。／Yamada-san is no longer here.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>この<ruby><rb>喫茶店</rb><rt>きっ さ てん</rt></ruby>はもう<ruby><rb>営業</rb><rt>えい ぎょう</rt></ruby>していない。／This coffee shop is no longer in business. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>疲</rb><rt>つか</rt></ruby>れて、もう<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えられなくなった。／I was so tired I couldn’t think anymore.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><ruby><rb>交渉</rb><rt>こう しょう</rt></ruby>のあと、だれももう<ruby><rb>文句</rb><rt>もん く</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>わなかった。／After the negotiations, nobody had any more complaints.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>かれとは、もうこれ<ruby><rb>以上</rb><rt>い じょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はな</rt></ruby>したくない。／I don’t want to say anything more to him.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>わたしは、18 <ruby><rb>才</rb><rt>さい</rt></ruby>、もう<ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>ではない。／I’m eighteen. I’m not a child anymore.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span>もう<ruby><rb>二度</rb><rt>に ど</rt></ruby>とあの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>には<ruby><rb>会</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>わないだろう。／I don’t suppose I’ll ever meet her again.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（8）</span>もう<ruby><rb>誰</rb><rt>だれ</rt></ruby>も<ruby><rb>信</rb><rt>しん</rt></ruby>じられないと<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>って、<ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>泣</rb><rt>な</rt></ruby>いていた。／She was crying and said, “I can’t trust anyone anymore.”</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（9）</span>こんな<ruby><rb>待遇</rb><rt>たい ぐう</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>職場</rb><rt>しょく ば</rt></ruby>にはもうがまんができない。／I can’t take it anymore in a workplace like this with such terrible conditions.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（10）</span>さいふの<ruby><rb>中</rb><rt>なか</rt></ruby>にはもう 100 <ruby><rb>円</rb><rt>えん</rt></ruby>しか<ruby><rb>残</rb><rt>のこ</rt></ruby>っていなかったので、<ruby><rb>家</rb><rt>いえ</rt></ruby>へ<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>るのにバスにも<ruby><rb>乗</rb><rt>の</rt></ruby>れなかった。／Since I only had 100 yen left in my wallet, I couldn’t even catch the bus home.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（11）</span>10 <ruby><rb>万</rb><rt>まん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>円</rb><rt>えん</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>値段</rb><rt>ね だん</rt></ruby>がついたので、もうこれ<ruby><rb>以上</rb><rt>い じょう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>上</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>がらないだろうと<ruby><rb>思</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>った。／Because it was already priced at 100,000 yen, I didn’t think the price could go any higher.</div><div class="explanation">This means, with something like a certain point in time as the limit, there is nothing further or nothing after that.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x96676"><span class="number">5. </span>もう〈negative attitude〉</h2><h3 class="subsubtitle" id="idsubsubtitlex1x96679"><span class="number">a. </span>もう+<ruby><rb>否</rb><rt>ひ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>定</rb><rt>てい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>的</rb><rt>てき</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>表</rb><rt>ひょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>現</rb><rt>げん</rt></ruby></h3><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>こんな<ruby><rb>退屈</rb><rt>たい くつ</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>仕事</rb><rt>し ごと</rt></ruby>はもうやめたい。／I want to quit this kind of boring work.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>もうあの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>愚痴</rb><rt>ぐ ち</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>くのはいやだ。／I’m sick of hearing that person’s complaints.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>これ<ruby><rb>以上</rb><rt>い じょう</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>歩</rb><rt>ある</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>続</rb><rt>つづ</rt></ruby>けるのは<ruby><rb>体力的</rb><rt>たい りょく てき</rt></ruby>にもう<ruby><rb>無理</rb><rt>む り</rt></ruby>です。／It’s physically impossible for me to walk any further.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>あの<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>をかばい<ruby><rb>続</rb><rt>つづ</rt></ruby>けられるのももう<ruby><rb>限界</rb><rt>げん かい</rt></ruby>だ。／I can’t carry on sticking up for that man.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><ruby><rb>戦争</rb><rt>せん そう</rt></ruby>をするのは、もうたくさんだ。／I’ve had it with the war.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>こんなまずいものを<ruby><rb>食</rb><rt>た</rt></ruby>べるのはもうたくさんだ。／I can’t eat any more of such disgusting stuff.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（7）</span>もういいかげんに<ruby><rb>妹</rb><rt>いもうと</rt></ruby>をいじめるのはやめなさい。／Stop picking on your younger sister.</div><div class="explanation">Using predicates with a negative meaning such as 無理だ and いやだ, this means the situation cannot be tolerated any further. Meaning “the limit has been reached and so I can’t take anymore,” もうたくさんだ is often used when the speaker is feeling quite emotional. It can also be used in cases, such as example (7), which prohibit further such behavior.</div><h3 class="subsubtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubsubtitlex1x96734"><span class="number">b. </span>もういい</h3><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><span class="number">A:</span>ほかに<ruby><rb>出</rb><rt>だ</rt></ruby>す<ruby><rb>書類</rb><rt>しょ るい</rt></ruby>がありますか。／Do you have any other documents to hand in?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>これでもういいです。／That’s all.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><span class="number">A:</span>チョコレート<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>いましょうか。／Shall we buy some chocolate?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いや、これだけ<ruby><rb>食料</rb><rt>しょく りょう</rt></ruby>があれば、もういいです。／No, this should be enough food.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><span class="number">A:</span>もう<ruby><rb>一杯</rb><rt>いっ ぱい</rt></ruby>いかがですか。／How about one more (glass/cup)?</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>いや、もういいです。／No, I’ve had enough.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>急</rb><rt>きゅう</rt></ruby>なアルバイトさえなかったら、<ruby><rb>来</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>られたんだけど。／If I just hadn’t had that sudden part-time work, I could have come.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span><ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>い<ruby><rb>訳</rb><rt>わけ</rt></ruby>はもういいよ。／That’s enough of your excuses.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span>お<ruby><rb>母</rb><rt>かあ</rt></ruby>さんの<ruby><rb>気持</rb><rt>き も</rt></ruby>ちも<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えてみなさい。／Try to think about your mother’s feelings, too.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>もういいよ。お<ruby><rb>説教</rb><rt>せっ きょう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>飽</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>きたよ。／Enough! I’m tired of your preaching!</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（6）</span><span class="number">A:</span><ruby><rb>頑張</rb><rt>がん ば</rt></ruby>っていたのに、うまく<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>かなくて<ruby><rb>残念</rb><rt>ざん ねん</rt></ruby>だったね。／It’s such a shame that it didn’t go well even though you did your best.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>もういいんです。<ruby><rb>何</rb><rt>なに</rt></ruby>か、ほかの<ruby><rb>事</rb><rt>こと</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>考</rb><rt>かんが</rt></ruby>えます。／Oh, it’s okay. I will think of something else.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（7）</span><span class="number">A:</span>もう<ruby><rb>一回</rb><rt>いっ かい</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>探</rb><rt>さが</rt></ruby>しなおせば、みつかるかもしれません。／If we have another look, we may be able to find it.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>もういいよ。あきらめよう。／I’ve had enough! Let’s give it up.</div><div class="explanation">Fundamentally this means “because this is enough, more than this is not necessary.” It is used in various circumstances. In example (3) it is used to decline something. Also, in (4) and (5), meaning “this is the limit, I can’t accept more than this,” it conveys the speaker’s attitude of refusal. It is often used in cases in which something has become disagreeable or tedious. As in (6) and (7), it is also used as an expression which conveys the feeling of being sick of or giving up on something which had been adhered to until that point. For the affirmative usage rules of もういい, see Usage 3 of もう.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x96876"><span class="number">6. </span>もう〈criticism〉</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>お<ruby><rb>母</rb><rt>かあ</rt></ruby>さんたら、もう。わたしの<ruby><rb>友達</rb><rt>とも だち</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>悪口</rb><rt>わる ぐち</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>うのはやめてよ。／Mom, enough! Stop badmouthing my friends.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>もう、あなたったら、こんなやさしい<ruby><rb>計算</rb><rt>けい さん</rt></ruby>もできないの。／Oh, come on, dear. Can’t you even do a simple calculation like this?</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>山田</rb><rt>やま だ</rt></ruby>さんたら、もう、また「お<ruby><rb>茶入</rb><rt>ちゃ い</rt></ruby>れて」ですって。<ruby><rb>自分</rb><rt>じ ぶん</rt></ruby>でやればいいのに。／That Yamada-san telling me again, “Make some tea.” He should make it himself.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（4）</span><span class="number">A:</span>あ、また、<ruby><rb>汚</rb><rt>よご</rt></ruby>した。／Oh, it’s dirty again.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>もう。／Already again!</div><div class="explanation">At the start or in the middle of a sentence, this expresses a feeling of criticism towards the other person. Only used in casual conversation and is often used by women. Frequently used with the highly critical (っ)たら.</div></body></html>