<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>がさいご</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x11132">【がさいご】</h1><h4 class="info">［V-たがさいご］</h4><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>ここで<ruby><rb>会</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>ったが<ruby><rb>最後</rb><rt>さい ご</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>謝</rb><rt>あやま</rt></ruby>ってもらうまでは<ruby><rb>逃</rb><rt>に</rt></ruby>がしはしない。／Now that I’ve met you here, I won’t let you go until you apologize to me.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>この<ruby><rb>計画</rb><rt>けい かく</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>聞</rb><rt>き</rt></ruby>いたが<ruby><rb>最後</rb><rt>さい ご</rt></ruby>、あなたもグループに<ruby><rb>加</rb><rt>くわ</rt></ruby>わってもらおう。／Now that you’ve heard about this project, we’ll have you join the group.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span><ruby><rb>学校内</rb><rt>がっ こう ない</rt></ruby>でタバコを<ruby><rb>吸</rb><rt>す</rt></ruby>っているのを<ruby><rb>見</rb><rt>み</rt></ruby>つかったが<ruby><rb>最後</rb><rt>さい ご</rt></ruby>、<ruby><rb>停学</rb><rt>てい がく</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>免</rb><rt>まぬが</rt></ruby>れないだろう。／Now that they’ve been found smoking in school, they won’t be able to avoid suspension.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>その<ruby><rb>茶碗</rb><rt>ちゃ わん</rt></ruby>は、<ruby><rb>一度</rb><rt>いち ど</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>手</rb><rt>て</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>取</rb><rt>と</rt></ruby>ったが<ruby><rb>最後</rb><rt>さい ご</rt></ruby>、どうしても<ruby><rb>買</rb><rt>か</rt></ruby>わずにはいられなくなるほど<ruby><rb>手触</rb><rt>て ざわ</rt></ruby>りや<ruby><rb>重</rb><rt>おも</rt></ruby>さ、<ruby><rb>色合</rb><rt>いろ あ</rt></ruby>いなどが<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>好</rb><rt>この</rt></ruby>みに<ruby><rb>合</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>っていた。／Once I had picked up the bowl I couldn’t help buying it, since its feel, weight, and color were so much to my liking.</div><div class="explanation">Expresses that a certain event occurs as the consequence of someone’s action or a course of events indicated in the subsequent clause. Example (1) expresses a challenge, meaning “I met you here, so you shall apologize to me.” Example (2) has the imperative meaning “because you have heard about this project, you have to join the group.” Also used in general, in non-threatening, non-imperative sentences such as (3) and (4).</div></body></html>