<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>まったく</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x90222">【まったく】</h1><h2 class="subtitle" id="idsubtitlex1x90224"><span class="number">1. </span>まったく...ない</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>きのうのクラスはまったくおもしろくなかった。／Yesterday’s class was not at all interesting.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>家</rb><rt>いえ</rt></ruby>ではまったく<ruby><rb>勉強</rb><rt>べん きょう</rt></ruby>をしない。／He does not study at all at home.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>この<ruby><rb>一週間</rb><rt>いっ しゅう かん</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>全</rb><rt>まった</rt></ruby>く<ruby><rb>雨</rb><rt>あめ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>降</rb><rt>ふ</rt></ruby>っていない。／It hasn’t rained at all this week.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>その<ruby><rb>選手</rb><rt>せん しゅ</rt></ruby>のフォームは<ruby><rb>全</rb><rt>まった</rt></ruby>く<ruby><rb>文句</rb><rt>もん く</rt></ruby>のつけようのない<ruby><rb>美</rb><rt>うつく</rt></ruby>しさだ。／The beauty of that player’s form cannot be criticized.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（5）</span>そのバイオリニストのアルバムは、デビューアルバムとしては<ruby><rb>全</rb><rt>まった</rt></ruby>く<ruby><rb>申</rb><rt>もう</rt></ruby>し<ruby><rb>分</rb><rt>ぶん</rt></ruby>のない<ruby><rb>出来</rb><rt>で き</rt></ruby>である。／One cannot say anything bad about that violinist’s album as a debut album.</div><div class="explanation">Used to emphasize the negative meaning. It is more formal than ぜんぜん, すこしも and ちっとも, etc. In order to intensify phrases such as 文句のつけようがない, 申し分のない, and 非の打ち所がない, etc., it is difficult to use any expression other than まったく. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x90267"><span class="number">2. </span>まったく</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>これとこれはまったく<ruby><rb>同</rb><rt>おな</rt></ruby>じものです。／This and this are entirely the same.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>それとこれとはまったくちがう<ruby><rb>話</rb><rt>はなし</rt></ruby>だ。／That and this are completely different conversations.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>まったくいやな<ruby><rb>雨</rb><rt>あめ</rt></ruby>だなあ。／This rain is so unpleasant.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（4）</span>またお<ruby><rb>金</rb><rt>かね</rt></ruby>わすれたの？　まったくこまった<ruby><rb>人</rb><rt>ひと</rt></ruby>ね。／You forgot your money again?  You really are impossible.</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo">（5）</span><span class="number">A:</span>うっとうしい<ruby><rb>天気</rb><rt>てん き</rt></ruby>だね。／What miserable weather!</div><div class="example talk"><span class="seigo"></span><span class="number">B:</span>まったくだ。／You said it!</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（6）</span>きのうの<ruby><rb>演奏</rb><rt>えん そう</rt></ruby>は<ruby><rb>全</rb><rt>まった</rt></ruby>くすばらしいものだった。／Yesterday’s performance was absolutely wonderful.</div><div class="explanation">Used to emphasize the extent of something. In example (5) it is used to give strong affirmation in response to what the other person has said.  </div></body></html>