<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en"><head><meta content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" http-equiv="default-style"/><link href="../Styles/style0001.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/><title>のは...だ</title></head><body><h1 class="title" id="idtitlex1x78153">【のは...だ】</h1><h4 class="info">［N／Na　なのは...だ］</h4><h4 class="info">［A／V　のは...だ］</h4><div class="explanation">Used in the pattern XのはYだ. X states something that the listener already knows or can expect, and Y expresses something new and previously unknown to the listener. </div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x78169"><span class="number">1. </span>...のは　Nだ／N+<ruby><rb>助</rb><rt>じょ</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>詞</rb><rt>し</rt></ruby>+だ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span>このことを<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>教</rb><rt>おし</rt></ruby>えてくれたのは<ruby><rb>山田</rb><rt>やま だ</rt></ruby>さんです。／The person who told me this is Yamada-san.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>言</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>うことを<ruby><rb>信</rb><rt>しん</rt></ruby>じているのはあなただけだ。／You’re the only one who believes what he says. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（3）</span>ここに<ruby><rb>通</rb><rt>かよ</rt></ruby>うようになったのは<ruby><rb>去年</rb><rt>きょ ねん</rt></ruby>の3<ruby><rb>月</rb><rt>がつ</rt></ruby>からです。／It was March of last year when I started to come here.</div><div class="explanation">Used to describe a certain situation and then indicate a person, thing, etc. relevant to the realization of that situation. だ／です is preceded by either a noun or a noun/particle combination. However, the particles が and を cannot be used.</div><div class="explanation type"><span class="type">（×）</span>このことを私に教えてくれたのは山田さんがです。／The person who told me this is Yamada-san.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x78209"><span class="number">2. </span>のは...からだ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>彼女</rb><rt>かの じょ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>試験</rb><rt>し けん</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>失敗</rb><rt>しっ ぱい</rt></ruby>したのは、<ruby><rb>体</rb><rt>からだ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>調子</rb><rt>ちょう し</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>悪</rb><rt>わる</rt></ruby>かったからだ。／The reason she failed the exam was that she didn’t feel well.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>大阪</rb><rt>おお さか</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>行</rb><rt>い</rt></ruby>ったのは<ruby><rb>事故</rb><rt>じ こ</rt></ruby>の<ruby><rb>原因</rb><rt>げん いん</rt></ruby>をたしかめたかったからです。／The reason I went to Osaka was that I wanted to determine the cause of the accident.</div><div class="explanation">Used to express a certain situation or event and then state the cause or reason for it.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x78234"><span class="number">3. </span>のは...ためだ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>電車</rb><rt>でん しゃ</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>遅</rb><rt>おく</rt></ruby>れたのは、<ruby><rb>踏切</rb><rt>ふみ きり</rt></ruby><ruby><rb>事故</rb><rt>じ こ</rt></ruby>があったためだ。／The reason the train was late was that there was an accident at a railroad crossing.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>彼</rb><rt>かれ</rt></ruby>らが<ruby><rb>国</rb><rt>くに</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>帰</rb><rt>かえ</rt></ruby>ったのは、<ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>たちに<ruby><rb>会</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>うためだ。／The reason they went back to their country was so they could see their children.</div><div class="explanation">Used to express a certain situation or event and then state the cause or reason for it.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x78259"><span class="number">4. </span>のは...おかげだ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>子供</rb><rt>こ ども</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>助</rb><rt>たす</rt></ruby>かったのはあなたのおかげです。／It is thanks to you that my child was saved. </div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span>この<ruby><rb>事業</rb><rt>じ ぎょう</rt></ruby>が<ruby><rb>成功</rb><rt>せい こう</rt></ruby>したのは、みんなが<ruby><rb>力</rb><rt>ちから</rt></ruby>を<ruby><rb>合</rb><rt>あ</rt></ruby>わせて<ruby><rb>頑張</rb><rt>がん ば</rt></ruby>ったおかげだ。／We owe the success of this project to your teamwork and effort.</div><div class="explanation">Used to express a favorable situation or event and then state what caused it.</div><h2 class="subtitle spaceBefore" id="idsubtitlex1x78284"><span class="number">5. </span>のは...せいだ</h2><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（1）</span><ruby><rb>雪崩</rb><rt>なだれ</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>巻</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>き<ruby><rb>込</rb><rt>こ</rt></ruby>まれたのは、<ruby><rb>無謀</rb><rt>む ぼう</rt></ruby>な<ruby><rb>計画</rb><rt>けい かく</rt></ruby>のせいだ。／The reason we got caught in an avalanche was that our plan was reckless.</div><div class="example"><span class="seigo">（2）</span><ruby><rb>試合</rb><rt>し あい</rt></ruby>に<ruby><rb>負</rb><rt>ま</rt></ruby>けたのは<ruby><rb>私</rb><rt>わたし</rt></ruby>がミスをしたせいだ。／We lost the game because I made an error.</div><div class="explanation">Used to express an unfavorable situation or event and then state what caused it. </div></body></html>